A Project Gutenberg Canada Ebook



This ebook is made available at no cost and with very few

restrictions. These restrictions apply only if (1) you make

a change in the ebook (other than alteration for different

display devices), or (2) you are making commercial use of

the ebook. If either of these conditions applies, please

check gutenberg.ca/links/licence.html before proceeding.



This work is in the Canadian public domain, but may be

under copyright in some countries. If you live outside Canada,

check your country’s copyright laws. IF THE BOOK IS UNDER

COPYRIGHT IN YOUR COUNTRY, DO NOT DOWNLOAD

OR REDISTRIBUTE THIS FILE.



Title: The Almost Perfect Murder.

A Case Book of Madame Storey.

Author: Footner, Hulbert (1879-1944)

Author [preface]: Anonymous

Date of first publication: 1937

Edition used as base for this ebook:

New York: Caxton House, 1939

Date first posted: 21 July 2010

Date last updated: 21 July 2010

Project Gutenberg Canada ebook #577



This ebook was produced by: Al Haines



THE





ALMOST PERFECT MURDER


Mr. Hulbert Footner’s well-known character, Madame Storey, is perhaps

the most celebrated woman detective in fiction. Her detective ability

is aided to some extent by feminine intuition, but she achieves

results—amazingly successful results, for the problems here elucidated

certainly proved baffling enough to the police. This volume provides

thrilling fare for all readers of detective stories, and Mr. Hulbert

Footner writes with his customary verve and ingenuity.



THE





ALMOST PERFECT


MURDER


A Case Book of Madame Storey





BY


HULBERT FOOTNER


Publishers



CAXTON HOUSE, INC.



Rockefeller Plaza



New York, N. Y.



1939



Made in the



United States of



America





CONTENTS


I THE ALMOST PERFECT MURDER





II MURDER IN MASQUERADE


III THE DEATH NOTICE





IV TAKEN FOR A RIDE


V IT NEVER GOT INTO THE PAPERS



The Almost Perfect Murder





I


Fay Brunton was one of those stars who suddenly shine out on Broadway

in full effulgence, and are almost as quickly darkened. Most people

will remember her name, but I doubt if many could name the parts in

which she appeared. But to those of us who knew her, she remains a

vivid and lovely memory; she was so beautiful! And that was not all of

it; beauty is not uncommon on Broadway: it was her great sweetness of

nature that endeared her to us; her girlishness; her simplicity. She

was not a great actress; her smile was her passport to popular favour.



My employer, Madame Storey, who knows everybody in the great world, had

become acquainted with Fay, and through her I had met the girl. By

degrees, I can hardly say how, Fay and I had become intimate friends.

She brought colour and incident into my life. To a plain Jane like me,

she was marvellous. I was the recipient of all her charming

confidences—or nearly all; and as well as I could, I steered her with

my advice amongst the pitfalls that beset a popular favourite. For one

in the limelight she was incredibly ignorant of evil. And you could

not bear to show her the ugly side of life.



How bitterly I regretted that I had not warned her against Darius

Whittall in the beginning. But I had thought that her natural goodness

would protect her. Goodness, however, is apt to be blind. Whittall’s

name had been connected with Fay’s for several months, but he was only

one of many. I had hoped that one of the young men would win out;

particularly one who was called Frank Esher, a fine fellow. I banked

on the fact that Fay had been shy about mentioning his name in her

confidences. As for Whittall, he was a notorious evil-liver. His wife

had committed suicide some weeks before. To me he was no better than a

murderer.



How well I remember the morning that Fay came to our offices to tell

us. It must have been November, for the trees in Gramercy Park had

shed their leaves, though the grass was still green. This was during

Fay’s second season when she was appearing with huge success in _Wild

Hyacinth_. She came in beaming, and I marked the gleam of a new pearl

necklace under her partly-opened sables. What a vision of youthful

loveliness she made, sparkling with a childlike excitement!



She had Mrs. Brunton with her. This lady was not her real mother, but

an ageing actress whom Fay had rescued from a cheap boarding-house, and

set up as her official chaperone. Such an arrangement is not unusual

on the stage. Mrs. Brunton was a typical stage mamma; over-dressed,

over-talkative; a foolish woman, but devoted to Fay, and people put up

with her on that account.



When Fay came to call, business was dropped for the time being. I took

her in to my mistress. What a complement they made to each other! the

one so dark and tall and wise; the other simple, fair and girlish.

Alongside my mistress, the girl looked the least bit colourless, but

that was inevitable. There is only one Madame Storey. Fay was not

aware that she suffered by comparison with the other, and if she had

known, I doubt if she would have minded.



Mrs. Brunton was in a great flutter. “Oh, I hope we’re not

interrupting anything important! Fay couldn’t wait a minute! What I

have been through since last night you wouldn’t believe! I didn’t

sleep a wink! And then to be hauled out of my bed at eight o’clock!

Eight o’clock! And dragged here half-dressed. Is there a mirror

anywhere? I know I’m a sight…!”



And so on; and so on. The exasperating thing about that woman was that

her talk never meant anything. She surrounded herself with a cloud of

words. Nobody ever paid any attention to what she said. Talk with her

was a sort of nervous habit, like biting the fingernails.



Meanwhile Mme. Storey was gazing into Fay’s face with searching

kindness. Nervously pulling off one of her gloves, the girl mutely

exhibited the third finger of her left hand. I caught a glimpse of an

emerald that took my breath away.



“Who is it?” asked Mme. Storey.



“Darius Whittall,” she murmured.



It was a horrible shock to me. Fortunately none of them was looking at

me at the moment. The thought of seeing my friend in all her youth and

loveliness handed over to that murderer—for such he was in all

essentials—was more than I could bear. The bottom seemed to drop out

of everything.



Mme. Storey’s face showed no change upon hearing the announcement,

though she must have known Darius Whittall better than I did. She

enfolded the girl in her arms, and murmured her good wishes.



Meanwhile Mrs. Brunton in the background was talking away like steam

puffing out of a boiling kettle. I perceived a certain glint of

anxiety in the old lady’s eye; she knew that Darius Whittall was no

paragon for a husband. But he was so rich! so rich! who could blame a

mother? She was relieved when Mme. Storey appeared to make no

difficulties about the match.



“Well, I never thought he’d be the one!” said Mme. Storey with an

appearance of great cheerfulness.



“Neither did I,” said Fay, laughing.



“Are you dreadfully in love with him?”



“I suppose so … I don’t know… Don’t ask me to examine my

feelings!”



“Look at her!” cried Mrs. Brunton. “Isn’t that enough? Radiantly

happy!”



“But if you’re going to marry the man,” said Mme. Storey, laughing,

“surely you must know the state of your feelings!”



“I want to marry him,” said Fay quickly. “Very much. I suppose it’s

because he needs me so.”



Mme. Storey’s expression said: Hum! But she did not utter it. She

asked when it was going to be.



“Soon,” said Fay. “There’s no reason for delay. It will be very

quiet, of course.”



“Of course,” said Mme. Storey.



Fay seemed to feel that some further explanation was required. “It’s

true his wife has only been dead two months,” she said. “But as Darius

pointed out, she had not been a real wife to him for years before that.”



“Poor woman!” said Madame Storey.



We all echoed that. “Poor woman!”



By this time I was aware that my mistress was not any better pleased

with Fay’s announcement than I had been; but she was too wise to burst

out with objections as I might have done.



“Why do you suppose she killed herself?” she said thoughtfully.



“Oh, don’t you know?” said Fay. “She was in love with somebody else.

Darius talks about her so nicely. He offered to let her divorce him,

but she wouldn’t because of her religion. A Catholic, you know. I

suppose she could see no way but to end it all. Darius honours her for

it.”



“Oh, don’t talk about it!” cried Mrs. Brunton. “Don’t let that cloud

darken this happy day! How that poor man has suffered! And such a

gentleman with it all. Such delicacy! I could tell you things about

him! But never mind!”



What has he given her? I thought.



Fay and Mme. Storey ignored her interruption. “But I think,” the

former went on with gentle censure, “that she ought to have considered

what a dreadful blow it would be to her husband.”



“Still,” said Mme. Storey dryly, “if she had not done it, you would not

be marrying him now.”



“No-o,” said Fay innocently. “I suppose not…. Of course Darius is

going to sell the house at Riverdale,” she continued with an

involuntary shiver. “I shouldn’t care to live there where it happened.”



Mme. Storey struck out on a new line. “Well! Well!” she said, “what a

poor guesser I am! Frank Esher was the one I backed.”



I saw a spark of animosity leap out of the old woman’s eye. I suppose

it occurred to her, too, that my seemingly candid mistress was trying

to gum her game.



“Oh, Frank Esher!” said Fay pettishly. “Don’t speak of him!”



“He was so good-looking!” said Mme. Storey dreamily.



“Good-looking, yes,” said Fay with some heat. “But impossible. You

don’t know! Oh, impossible!”



“I liked him,” said Mme. Storey, “because there seemed to be a genuine

fire in him. Most young fellows are so tame! I should have thought he

would make a wonderful lover.”



Fay, silenced, looked at her with rather a stricken expression in the

candid blue eyes.



Mrs. Brunton rushed in to fill the breach. “Fire!” she snorted.

“Preserve us from that kind of fire. That’s all I have to say. I

don’t speak of his rudeness to me. I am nobody. He treated Fay as if

she was just an ordinary girl. No sense of the difference in their

positions. A dreadful young man! He spoiled everything. So different

from Mr. Whittall. He is such a gentleman. You never catch him making

a vulgar display of his feelings!”



Fay had recovered her speech. “That incident is closed,” she said.

“Frank was simply a thorn in my side.”



But Mme. Storey would not let Frank drop. “By the way, what has become

of him?” she asked. “I haven’t seen him for ages.”



“We quarrelled,” said Fay with an impatient shrug. “He Was always

quarrelling with me. He said that would be the last time, and he went

away somewhere. Peru or China or somewhere. Nobody knows where he’s

gone. Now I have a little peace.”



But the look in her eyes belied her words.



There was a lot more talk. Like every young girl when she first gets

herself engaged, Fay could hardly speak a sentence without bringing in

the name of her lover. One would have thought Darius was the Oracle.

Considering the manner of man he was, it was absurd and it was piteous.



Darius had no objection to her finishing out the run of _Wild

Hyacinth_. But after this season, of course, she would retire. Darius

had bought a town house. No, not a big place on the Avenue; Darius

hated show. A dear little house in the East Seventies; Darius had said

that was the smartest thing now. Very plain outside, and a perfect

bower within. Like a French maisonette. Darius had such original

ideas. And so on.



When they got up to go, Fay said to me wistfully: “You haven’t

congratulated me, Bella.”



What was I to say? The tears sprang to my eyes. Fortunately she

considered that the emotion was suitable to the circumstances. “Oh, I

want you to be happy! I want you to be happy!” I stammered.



The words did not please her. She withdrew herself from my arms

somewhat coldly.





II


When the door closed behind them I broke down. Mme. Storey looked at

me sympathetically. “Ah, Bella, you are very fond of her, aren’t you?”

she murmured. “This is damnable!”



In my eagerness I involuntarily clasped my hands. “Ah, but you won’t

… you won’t let it go on!” I implored her.



“I?” she said in great surprise. “How on earth could I stop it, my

dear?”



“Oh, but you could! you could!” I wailed. “You can do anything!”



She shook her head. “As an outsider I have no business to interfere.

And, anyhow, my better sense tells me it would be worse than useless.

If I said a word to her against her Darius, she’d rush off and marry

him the same day. You saw how she looked at you just now…. No! it’s

a tragedy, but it’s beyond our mending. If I have learned anything it

is that we cannot play Providence in the lives of others. We can only

look on and pity her…”



“That’s what your head says,” I murmured. “What about your heart?”



She rose, and began to pace the long room. “Ah, don’t drag in heart,”

she said, almost crossly one would have thought; “I can’t set out to

save every foolish girl who is determined to make a mess of her life!”



“I can’t bear it!” I said.



She continued to walk up and down the long room. That room had been

expressly chosen for its length, so that she could pace it while she

was thinking. How well it suited her! the bare and beautiful

apartment, with its rare old Italian furnishings and pictures. She

herself was wearing a Fortuny gown adapted from the same period; and

when you turned your back to the windows which looked out on

matter-of-fact New York, you were transported right back to sixteenth

century Florence.



I felt that anything more I might say would only damage my suit, so I

remained silent. But I couldn’t stop the tears from running down.

Mme. Storey looked at me uneasily every time she turned.



“We must get to work,” she said crossly. I obediently took up my

notebook. “Oh, well,” she said in a different tone. “For your sake,

Bella…” She returned to her desk, and took the telephone receiver

off its hook. “We’ll see if we cannot dig up something in the

circumstances surrounding Mrs. Whittall’s death that will give this

foolish girl cause to stop and think what she is doing.”



She called up Police Headquarters. “Rumsey,” she said, “do you

remember the case of Mrs. Darius Whittall who killed herself about two

months ago? … Well, I suppose there was an inquest or investigation

of some sort, and that the findings are on file somewhere. Come and

see me this afternoon, will you? and bring the papers with you. I want

to go over them with you…. I’ll tell you when I see you… Thanks,

at four then. Good-bye.”



Our worthy friend arrived promptly to his hour. Inspector Rumsey was

not a distinguished-looking man, but he was true-blue. He owed part of

his reputation, perhaps, to his friendship for my mistress, who often

helps him with the more subtle points of his cases. He in return, I

need hardly say, is able to render us invaluable assistance.



The papers he laid before my mistress told a simple and straightforward

tale. On the night of Sunday, September 11th, Mrs. Whittall had dined

alone at their place in Riverdale. Her husband was dining with friends

in the city. After dinner, that is to say about nine-thirty, she had

complained of the heat, and had asked her maid, Mary Thole, for a light

wrap, saying that she would walk in the grounds for a few minutes.

Almost immediately after she left the house, the sound of a shot was

heard. Everybody in the house heard it, since the windows were all

open.



The butler and the second man rushed out to the spot whence it came, a

little pavilion or summer-house placed on a slight knoll overlooking

the river, about two hundred yards from the house. They found the body

of their mistress lying at full length on the gravel outside the

entrance to the pavilion. She had evidently fallen with considerable

force, for her hair was partly down, the hairpins lying about. An

ornamental comb which she wore was found about four feet from her body.

One of her slippers was off. So it was judged that she had shot

herself within the pavilion, and had fallen backwards down the steps.

There were three steps. There was a bullet hole in her right temple,

and so far as the servants could judge she was already dead. The

revolver was still lying in her partly opened hand. Upon a microscopic

examination of the gun later, the prints upon it were found to be those

of Mrs. Whittall’s fingers.



The body was immediately carried into the house and laid upon the bed.

The family physician was telephoned for. The powder marks around the

wound could be seen by all. In his confusion and excitement, the

butler felt that he ought to notify his master of what had happened

before sending for the police. Nobody in the house knew where Mr.

Whittall was dining that night, and the butler started telephoning

around to his clubs, and to the houses of his most intimate friends in

the endeavour to find him. He could not get any word of him. He was

still at the telephone when Mr. Whittall returned home. This would be

about eleven. Mr. Whittall’s first act was to telephone to the local

police station. He upbraided the butler for not having done so at

once. A few minutes later the police were in the house.



Mrs. Whittall’s own maid had identified the revolver as one belonging

to her mistress. She had testified that she had seen nothing strange

in the behaviour of her mistress before she left the house. So far as

she could tell, there was nothing special on her mind. She was a very

quiet lady, and saw little company. She had left no letter in

explanation of her act. Not more than a minute or so could have

elapsed between the time she left the house and the sound of the shot,

so she must have proceeded direct to the pavilion and done the deed.

Indeed, it happened so quickly it seemed as if she must have run there.



The doctor testified that Mrs. Whittall was dead when he saw her.

Death must have been instantaneous. The bullet had passed through her

brain and was lodged against the skull on the other side from the point

of entrance. Questioned as to her possible reasons for the deed, he

said he knew of none. The dead woman was in normal health, and though

he had known her for many years, and was a friend, she did not often

have occasion to send for him in a professional capacity. She seemed

normal in mind. He admitted though, that she might have been seriously

disturbed without his knowing anything of it, since she was a very

reticent woman, who spoke little about her own affairs.



Mr. Whittall testified that the revolver found in the dead woman’s hand

was one which he had given her some three months previously. It was a

Matson, 32 calibre, an automatic of the latest pattern. She had not

asked for a gun. He had given it to her of his own motion, believing

that every woman ought to have the means of defending herself at hand.

He did not know for sure if she had ever practised shooting it, but he

believed not. Only one shot had been fired from it. He understood

that she had kept it in the top drawer of the chiffonier in her room,

but he had never seen it there. He had not noticed anything unwonted

in her behaviour on that day, or he would never have left her alone.

It was true, though, that she had suffered from periods of deep

depression. She brooded on the fact that she had no children, and

looked forward with dread to a childless old age.



Such, in effect, were the contents of the papers which Inspector Rumsey

spread before us. Tea and cigarettes followed. Mme. Storey looked

disappointed at the outcome.



“Merely a perfunctory investigation, of course,” said Inspector Rumsey.

“Nobody suspected there might be something peculiar in the case.

Nobody wished to turn up anything peculiar.”



“I had hoped that there would be enough in these papers to accomplish

my purpose,” said Mme. Storey gravely. “By showing them to a certain

person, I mean. But there is not. So we must dig further into this

business. It is not a job that I look forward to!”



“What can you expect to do now, after two months?” said the Inspector.



“Oh, there are plenty of leads. Firstly: if Mr. Whittall was dining in

New York that night, it is strange that he should have arrived home in

Riverdale as early as eleven.”



“Right!”



“Secondly: if it was such a hot night, why should Mrs. Whittall have

called for a wrap? When one steps outside to cool off, one doesn’t

wrap up. It is indicated that she meant to stay out awhile.”



“Right!”



“Thirdly: Whittall’s explanation of his wife’s alleged depression is

mere nonsense. It is a simple matter for a rich woman to adopt a child

if she is lonely.”



The Inspector nodded.



“Fourthly: when a person shoots himself dead one of two things happens.

Occasionally the grip on the gun is spasmodic, and remains fixed in

death. More often in the act of death all the muscles relax. In that

case when she fell from the steps the gun would have been knocked from

her hand, just as the comb was knocked from her head. As a matter of

fact, they say the gun was found lying in her open hand. I am forced

to the conclusion that it was placed there afterwards.”



I looked at her, struck with horror.



“In that case she must have been decoyed to the pavilion,” said the

Inspector.



“That is for us to find out.”



“The double identification of the gun as hers is an awkward point to

get over,” he suggested.



“Matson 32’s are sold by the hundreds,” said Mme. Storey. “There is no

evidence that this one bore any distinguishing marks. Why not another

of the same design?”



“In that case Mrs. Whittall’s gun would have been found.”



“Maybe it was.”



The Inspector slowly nodded. “A case begins to shape itself,” he said.

“What do you want me to do?”



“It is not yet a matter of public interest,” said Mme. Storey. “As

soon as we have sufficient evidence that it is, we will put it in your

hands. In the meantime I wish you’d trace where and when Whittall

bought the gun that he gave his wife, and the number of it. You have

better facilities for doing that than I have.”



He nodded.





III


A pleasant-faced young woman, very neatly and plainly dressed, came

into my office somewhat shyly, and mutely offered me a printed slip

which had been filled in. I read at a glance that the bearer was Mary

Thole, who had been sent by Mrs. –-‘s Employment Agency as an

applicant for the position of maid. One of our operatives had brought

about this visit without the girl’s suspecting what we wanted of her.

I looked at her with a strong interest. Through my association with

Mme. Storey I have learned to read character to some degree, and I said

to myself that the lady who secured this girl would be lucky. Good

servants are rare.



I took her in to Madame Storey.



“Do you know who I am?” asked my mistress.



“Yes, Madame, I read in the papers…”



“Good! then you know something of my business. I may as well tell you

at once that I do not need a maid. That was merely a pretext.”



The girl looked at her, greatly startled.



“Oh, you have nothing to fear,” Mme. Storey went on. “I merely wished

to satisfy myself that you were an honest and a faithful girl. I am

satisfied of it. I mean to be frank with you. Mr. Whittall has

engaged himself to marry a friend of mine, a beautiful young girl. I

think that is a great shame.”



“Oh, yes, Madame!” she said earnestly. “He … he is not a good man!”



“So I think myself,” said Mme. Storey dryly. “I want you to tell me

all the circumstances surrounding Mrs. Whittall’s death.”



The girl’s eyes widened in horror, and she pressed one hand to her

cheek. “Oh, Madame, do you think … do you think … that he …!”



“Hush!” said Mme. Storey. “Answer my questions carefully, and we’ll

see.”



The girl went on in a daze, more to herself than to us: “Of course, I

always knew it was due to him … in a way … he made it impossible

for her to live … but I never thought that he might actually …”



“Don’t jump to conclusions,” warned Mme. Storey. She reseated herself

at her desk.



“May I ask you something?” said Mary humbly.



“Certainly.”



“Is it … is it the beautiful young actress, Miss Brunton?”



“Yes. What put that into your head?”



“Well, it came to my mistress’s ears that her name was being connected

with Mr. Whittall’s, and she heard she was a nice girl, so it seemed a

great shame to her on the girl’s account. So she asked Miss Brunton

and her mother to come to Oakhurst—that was the name of the house—to

lunch and spend the afternoon. She wanted to stop any scandal that was

going about, that might hurt the girl. That was the sort of woman she

was; thinking of everybody before herself.”



“Hm!” said my mistress, “and did they come?”



“Yes, Madame, and my mistress told me the girl was a dear—that was her

own word, and she hoped she could really make friends with her.”



“Was Mr. Whittall present at this luncheon?”



“No, Madame. My mistress had fixed a day when she knew he would be out

of town.”



“When was this?”



“I cannot say to a day. Late in August some time. Two weeks, maybe

three, before my mistress died.”



“What can you tell me about that visit?”



“Not much, Madame. I was busy about my work, of course. When the car

drove up to carry them away, I peeped out of the window, and I had a

glimpse of the young lady, as she turned around to say good-bye. Such

a beautiful young lady! She was happy and smiling, so I supposed

everything had gone well.”



“You cannot tell me anything they did?”



“Nothing, except I heard they had tea sent out to the pavilion.”



“Who served it?”



“The butler would be at the tea-wagon, Madame, and the second man

serving.”



“What were the relations, generally, between Mr. and Mrs. Whittall?”

asked Mme. Storey.



Mary looked uncomfortable. She said in a low voice: “They were living

apart, Madame—though under the same roof, since before I came. They

never quarrelled before the servants, of course. They were cold to

each other. It was the gossip among the servants that Mr. Whittall was

always trying to persuade her to get a divorce, and she wouldn’t

because it was against the laws of her church.”



“So is self-destruction,” remarked Mme. Storey gravely.



Mary looked up quickly. Evidently this was a new thought to her.



“You considered that Mrs. Whittall was an unhappy woman?” asked Mme.

Storey.



The girl nodded. “But I never heard her complain,” she added quickly.



“Had she ever spoken of adopting a child?”



“Not seriously, Madame. Once I heard her say that a child was entitled

to a father as well as a mother.”



“Now let us come to the day of the tragedy,” said Mme. Storey. “I want

you to tell me everything that happened that day, beginning with the

morning.”



“I can’t tell you much,” said Mary. “What happened at night seems to

have driven it all out of my head…. It was Sunday. I suppose Madame

went to early mass as usual. She would not let me get up on Sunday

mornings to dress her, nor would she have the car. She walked to

church. Then came breakfast. I tidied up her room then. I don’t

remember anything about the morning; I suppose she was writing letters.

After lunch she slept; I dressed her when she got up. I scarcely saw

her during the day. She wanted us to rest on Sundays. Dinner was

always earlier; half-past six. I had heard downstairs that the master

was dining out. Mrs. Whittall didn’t dress for dinner on Sundays. She

came up from the table in less than half an hour. I was in her room

then….”



“How did she look?”



“Quite as usual, Madame. Calm and pale.”



“What happened then?”



“A few minutes later a special delivery letter was brought to the door.”



“Ha!” said Mme. Storey. “Why was this never mentioned before?”



“Nobody asked me about it, Madame.” For the first time an evasive note

sounded in the girl’s honest voice.



“Was not such a thing very unusual?”



“No, Madame. Mrs. Whittall’s mail was very large, she was interested

in so many charities and committees. So many people wrote to her

asking for one thing or another. There were often special delivery

letters; telegrams too.”



“Did you have this letter in your hands?”



“Yes, Madame. I carried it from the door to my mistress.”



“Describe it.”



“Just an ordinary white envelope with the address written on it. No

printing.”



“Did you recognise the handwriting?”



“No, Madame.”



“Was it a man’s handwriting?”



“I don’t know. I just gave it a careless glance.”



Again the evasive note. However, Mme. Storey chose to ignore it.



“Then what happened?”



“Mrs. Whittall said she wouldn’t want me any more, and I went away.”



“Then?”



“After a while, an hour maybe, she sent for me back again.”



“You found her changed then?”



Mary looked at Mme. Storey in a startled way. “Y-yes, Madame,” she

faltered. “Her cheeks were red. She was nervous. She tried to hide

it.”



“Where was the letter then?”



“It wasn’t anywhere about. It was never seen again.”



“Was there a fireplace in the room?”



Mary looked frightened again. “Y-yes, Madame.”



“Did you not look there afterwards—next day perhaps?”



The girl hung her head. “Y-yes, Madame.”



“And found some scraps of burned paper?”



“Yes, Madame.” This very low. “I swept them up.”



Once more, to my surprise, Mme. Storey dropped this line of questioning

for the moment. “What did Mrs. Whittall say to you?” she asked.



“She said her afternoon dress was too hot, Madame, and she wanted to

change. So I started to get a n�glig�e from the wardrobes, but she

said no, she had a fancy to put on her blue net evening dress that she

had never worn. She wanted her hair done in a different way, too. I

was a long time dressing her. It was the first time I had ever found

her hard to suit. At the end she asked for her blue velvet evening

cloak, as she wanted to walk in the grounds for the cool.”



“Had she ever done that before?”



“Not as far as I know, Madame.”



“Describe the blue dress.”



“A simple little frock, Madame. Just a plain, tight bodice of

charmeuse, and a full skirt of net in points over underskirts of

malines. A scarf of blue malines went with it. She had never worn it

because she said it was too young for her.”



“How old was Mrs. Whittall?”



“Thirty-seven, Madame…. She wasn’t old at all!” the girl went on

warmly. “She was beautiful! She was beautiful all over!”



“Where did she keep her revolver?” asked Mme. Storey.



“In the top drawer of the chiffonier in the bedroom. I could feel it

lying at the bottom of the drawer when I put things away.”



“Were you in the bedroom when you were dressing her that Sunday night?”



“No, Madame; in the dressing-room, which adjoined.”



“Did she leave the room at any time while you were dressing her?”



“No, Madame.”



“Did you leave the room?”



“No, Madame. The wardrobes were right there along the wall.”



“When she was dressed, who left the room first?”



“She did, Madame. I remained to tidy things up. I was still in the

dressing-room when I heard … when I heard…”



“I know,” said Mme. Storey gently. “Please attend well to what I am

going to ask you. When Mrs. Whittall left the room where did she go?”



“Out through the door into the hall, Madame, and down the stairs. I

heard her heels on the stairs. She was in a hurry.”



“She did not go into the bedroom first?”



“No, Madame.”



“Did she have anything in her hands when she went out of the

dressing-room?”



“No, Madame.”



“Did the blue cloak have a pocket in it?”



“Only a tiny pocket inside for a handkerchief.” Mary held up thumb and

finger, indicating a space of an inch and a half.



“Would it have been possible for her to conceal the revolver inside

that tight bodice?”



“No, Madame.”



“Then I ask you, was it possible that she could have carried her

revolver out of the house with her?”



The girl stared at her with wide eyes of horror. “No, Madame! No!

No! … I never thought it out before…. Oh, my poor mistress!”



She broke down completely. Mme. Storey lit a cigarette, to give her

time to recover herself.



“Well, after that we know pretty well what happened,” my mistress said

soothingly. “Just a few more questions…. Did it occur to you at any

time before your master came home, to look in the chiffonier drawer to

see if Mrs. Whittall’s gun was there?”



“No, Madame. I never thought. I scarcely knew what I was doing.”



“When did you first see Mr. Whittall?”



“He came running up the stairs to the bedroom where the … where the

body was lying. He ordered us all out of the room. ‘I must be alone

with my dead!’ he said. Those were his words. Very dramatic.”



“Hm!” said Mme. Storey with a hard smile. “And then?”



“In just a minute he called me back into the room by myself, and

started to question me, very excited.”



“What sort of questions?”



“I can’t remember exactly…. Like the questions you were asking me.

What she was doing all day? What made her go out, and so on.”



“Did you tell him about the letter which came?”



“Yes, Madame, because he asked if any message had come.”



“What did he say when you told him about the letter?”



“He didn’t say anything, then. Later, when we were waiting to be

questioned by the police, he sort of said to me and Mr. Frost, the

butler, and Mr. Wilkins, the second man—we were the only ones who knew

about the letter; he said maybe it would be better if nothing was said

about it, and we agreed, of course, not wishing to raise any scandal

about the mistress.”



“What can you tell me about his subsequent actions?”



“Well, Madame, whenever he got a chance, I saw him looking, looking

about the sitting-room and the bedroom…”



“For the letter?”



“So I supposed.”



“Did you know then that it had been burned?”



“Yes, Madame; I had looked before he came home.”



“Why didn’t you tell him it had been burned?”



“I didn’t want to give him that satisfaction.”



“What else?”



“Well, as long as the police were in the house, Mr. Whittall was right

there with them. After they had gone he went out. He took a

flashlight with him, because I could see it flashing down the path to

the pavilion. Then I lost him. He was out of the house about ten

minutes. When he came back he wanted me to go to bed. But I asked to

stay up … by her. He went to bed.”



“Can you tell me what became of the pistol that was found in Mrs.

Whittall’s hand?”



“The police captain took it away with him that night. Later I heard

that Mr. Whittall had given it to him.”



“Now to go back,” said Mme. Storey. “When your mistress sent for you

to dress her, you said you found her excited. Do you mean pleasurably

so?”



“Yes … no … I can hardly say, Madame. When I thought over it

afterwards, I supposed she had made up her mind then to end it all, and

was just sort of wrought up.”



“That was reasonable. But you know now that you were wrong.”



Mary nodded. “I don’t know what to think now,” she said unhappily.



“That letter,” said Mme. Storey—and Mary instantly began to look

nervous, “what do you think was in it, Mary?”



“How should I know?” she said. “A girl like me, just a lady’s maid.”



“But you thought it had something to do with the tragedy.”



“Not direct.”



“Well, indirectly, then.”



“Whatever I may have thought is proved wrong now.”



“Tell me what you thought.”



“I don’t think I ought,” was the stubborn reply. “I told you the truth

when I said I didn’t know the handwriting. It was only a guess.”



Mme. Storey tried another tack. “Mary,” she said, “Mr. Whittall has

told his fianc�e that his wife killed herself because she was in love

with another man.”



“That’s a lie!” she said excitedly. “At least, the way he means it.

My mistress was a good woman!”



“I am sure of it!” said Mme. Storey gravely. “But I can also

understand how a woman, married to a man like Whittall, might conceive

an honourable love for another man, and still remain true to her

marriage vows.”



The girl broke into a helpless weeping. Still she stubbornly held her

tongue.



At length Mme. Storey said: “Mary, your mistress was foully murdered.

Don’t you want to see justice done?”



“Yes! … Yes!” she sobbed. “But I don’t see how he could have done

it. I don’t know what to think! I don’t see any use in raking up a

scandal!”



“The whole story must be opened to the light now,” said Mme. Storey

gravely. “If that is done, no possible blame can attach to your

mistress’s name. Wouldn’t you rather tell me here than be forced to

tell in open court?”



Mary nodded.



“Then, Mary, from whom did you think that letter had come?”



“Mr. Barry Govett,” she whispered.



I exclaimed inwardly. Barry Govett!



“You mustn’t lay too much on that!” Mary went on, as well as she could

for sobbing. “I am ready to swear there was nothing wrong between

them. I don’t believe they ever saw each other alone but once. That

was at our house in the summer. Mr. Govett called unexpected. He

didn’t stay but an hour. I happened to go into my mistress’s

sitting-room where they were, and I saw them. I saw by the way they

looked at each other how … how it was with them both. How it would

always be. I had never seen anything like that….” She was unable to

go on.





IV


Barry Govett was the most prominent bachelor in New York society. I

had been reading about him in the papers for years. His name regularly

headed the list of men present at every fashionable entertainment, and

one was continually being informed of his visiting this great person or

that in Newport, Saratoga, Lenox, Tuxedo and Palm Beach. Prominent as

he was at this time, he must have been still more prominent a few years

ago when the cotillon was still a feature of every ball. I have always

wondered what a cotillon was. Barry Govett was the cotillon leader

par excellence. They said then that one had to engage him months

ahead.



All this I had gathered from the gossip weeklies, which, like every

other stenographer whose social life was limited to a boarding-house, I

used to read with avidity. Barry Govett was their _pi�ce de

resistance_. Before all this happened, he was once pointed out to me

in court costume at a great fancy dress ball; and I thought then that

he had the most beautifully turned leg I had ever seen on a man. He

must have been over forty then, but still conveyed the effect of a

young man; very handsome in his style. But too much the cotillon

leader for me. When I thought over this I wondered what a woman like

Mrs. Whittall could have seen in him. One never knows!



The moment he entered the outer office I was aware of a personality.

Of course, no man could occupy so lofty a position for years, even if

it was only at the head of a frivolous society, without acquiring great

aplomb. Close at hand in the daylight, I saw that there was little of

the youth remaining about him, though his figure was still slim, but I

liked him better than I had expected. He had a long, oval face, almost

ascetic looking, with nice blue eyes, though they were always

pleasantly watchful, and betrayed little. He was wonderfully turned

out, of course, but nothing spectacular. It was the perfection of art

that conceals art. I was immediately sensible of his charm too, though

I had discounted it in advance. The smile and the bow conveyed no

intimation that he saw in me merely the humble secretary.



I took him in to Mme. Storey. She was playing the great lady that

afternoon, and the black ape Giannino in green cap and jacket with

golden bells was seated in the crook of her left arm. Mr. Govett

hastened forward, and gracefully kissed her hand. I wondered if

Giannino would snatch at his none-too-well-covered poll. We were

always amused to see how the ape would receive a new person. He is an

individual of very strong likes and dislikes. However, he only made a

face at Mr. Govett, and hissed amicably. Indeed, Mr. Govett held out

his elbow, and Giannino hopped upon it, and stroked his face. This was

a great victory.



“Dear lady!” said Mr. Govett, “this is an undeserved privilege. To be

invited to tea with you, and” (looking around the room) “alone!”



“Just me and Giannino and my friend Miss Brickley,” said Mme. Storey.



He whirled around and bowed to me again, murmuring: “Charmed!” My hand

was horribly self-conscious in the expectation that he might offer to

kiss it. I wondered if it was quite clean. Which way would I look! I

could see too that Mme. Storey was wickedly hoping that he might.

Fortunately he did not.



“Miss Brickley has been dying to meet you,” she said slyly.



“Ah! you do me too much honour!” he said.



I was rather fussed, and therefore I was bound not to show It. “Well,

you’re such a famous man,” I said.



“Now you’re spoofing me,” he said. “It’s not much to be a hero of the

society notes, is it?”



Tea was waiting, and we attacked it forthwith. Mr. Govett, stroking

Giannino’s pompadour, and feeding him sugar, supplied most of the

conversation. His gossip was extremely amusing, without being

malicious—well not very malicious. No doubt he suited his talk to

his company.



Had we heard that Bessie Van Brocklin was going to give a zoological

dinner? It was in honour of her new cheetah. He didn’t know quite

what a cheetah was; the name sounded ominous. The Princess Yevrienev

had promised to bring her lion cubs, and the Goldsby-Snows would be on

hand with their falcons. Somebody else had a wolf, and he had heard a

rumour that there was an anaconda being kept in the dark. Oh, and of

course, there were plenty of monkeys in society, zoological and

otherwise. It ought to be a brilliant affair.



Had we heard the latest about Freddy Vesey? Freddy had been dining

with the Stickneys, who were the last householders on Madison Square.

Carried away by his boyhood recollections of old New York, Freddy had

leaped into the fountain, causing great excitement among the

park-benchers. An Irish policeman was convinced that it was an

attempted suicide. Freddy had argued with him at length from the

middle of the fountain. Freddy had refused to come out until the

policeman promised to let him off. No, Freddy had not undressed before

jumping in, he was happy to say, and thereby the world was saved a

shocking disclosure of the means by which he preserved his ever

youthful figure.



All the while this was going on, I could see that Mr. Govett was

wondering why he had been asked to tea with us. He knew, of course,

that we had something more to do than gossip in that place. But he

betrayed no particular anxiety.



Finally they lighted their cigarettes. Giannino, who adores

cigarettes, though they invariably make him sick, coolly stole Mr.

Govett’s from between his lips, and fled up to the top of a picture

frame, where he sat and mocked at us. I dislodged him with a stick

which I keep for the purpose, and depriving him of his booty, carried

him to his little house in the middle room. When I came back Mme.

Storey was saying: “Have you heard that Darius Whittall is going to

marry Fay Brunton?”



“That was a foregone conclusion, wasn’t it?” said Mr. Govett with a

shrug.



“Not to me!”



“Ah, yes, of course, the adorable Brunton is a friend of yours.” I

could see by his eyes that he was thinking: Is this what I was

brought here for?



“Is Whittall a friend of yours?” asked Mme. Storey.



“No!” he said shortly.



“Barry, you and I have known each other for a good many years,” said

Mme. Storey, “and I have confidence in your discretion, though you

always make-believe not to have any…”



“Thanks, dear lady.”



“What do you think of me?”



“I think you’re an angel!”



“Oh, not that tosh!”



“I think you’re the greatest woman in New York!”



“That’s not what I want either. In all these affairs that I have been

engaged in, are you satisfied that I have always taken the side of

decency?”



“Oh, yes!” he said quite simply. “What a question!”



“Good! Then I ask for your confidence in this affair. I am

investigating the circumstances surrounding the death of Mrs. Whittall.”



He gave a start, which he instantly controlled. One could not have

said that he showed more than anybody might have shown upon hearing

such an announcement. “Good Heavens!” he murmured, “do you think there

was anything more than…”



“She was murdered, Barry.”



“Oh, my God!” he whispered. His face turned greyish; his hands shook.

I thought the man was going to faint; but even while I looked at him,

he steadied himself. I never saw such an exhibition of self-control.

He drew a long breath.



“How can I help?” he asked quietly.



“By being quite frank with me.”



He looked at me in a meaning way.



“Miss Brickley is familiar with all the circumstances,” said Mme.

Storey, “and she possesses my entire confidence. Nothing that

transpires in this room is ever heard outside of it, unless I choose

that it shall be.”



“Of course,” he murmured. “Still, I don’t see how I…”



“Mrs. Whittall was lured out to the pavilion by a letter which we have

reason to suppose she thought you had written.”



He jumped up involuntarily, staring at her like one insane; then

dropped limply into his chair again. It was some moments before he

could speak. “But I never wrote to her in my life!”



“Then how could she have known your handwriting?” asked Mme. Storey.



“Well, I mean nothing but social notes; answers to invitations and so

on.” He saw that he had made a slip, and added hastily: “How do you

know that she did recognise my handwriting?”



“We mustn’t waste the afternoon fencing with each other,” said Mme.

Storey mildly. “You are aware of something that would help me very

much in this matter.”



“What makes you think so?” he asked with an innocent air.



“You betrayed it just now. It leaped out of your eyes.”



“I’m sure I don’t know what you mean.”



“Barry, nothing can be altogether hidden. Your secret is known to a

few people.”



“I have so many secrets!” he said with a silly-sounding laugh.



“You were in love with her.”



“If you imply by that…” he began excitedly.



“I imply nothing. From all accounts Mrs. Whittall must have been a

saint.”



“She was,” he said. “And of course I loved her. Everybody who knew

her loved her. In our world she moved like a creature apart. She was

really good.”



“Of course,” said Mme. Storey. “But that is not what I mean.”



He remained obstinately silent.



“Why did you call on her unexpectedly one afternoon last summer?” Mme.

Storey asked bluntly.



He stared at her in confusion. “Why … why for no special reason,” he

stammered.



“On that afternoon,” pursued my mistress relentlessly, “you told her

that you loved her, and she confessed that it was returned.”



He suddenly gave up. “Rosika, you are superhuman!” he said simply. “I

am in your hands … we all are!” He relaxed in his chair, and his

chin sank on his breast. The guard had fallen from his eyes, and he

looked old and heartbroken. Mme. Storey gave him his own time to

speak.



“You understand,” he said at last, “my only object in trying to put you

off was to protect her memory—not that it needed protection, but only

from misrepresentation.”



“I understood that from the beginning,” said my mistress.



“It is true that I was in love with her,” he went on. “Since many

years ago. Almost from the time that Whittall first brought her home.

We called her St. Cecilia. I watched her once cutting roses in her

garden, when she didn’t know anybody was near. At first it didn’t hurt

much. I had no aspirations. She was like a beautiful dream in my

life, which redeemed it from triviality. I fed my dream with what

glimpses of her came my way.



“Later, all that was changed. It hurt then! Because I knew that she

must be unhappy, and I longed to make her happy. I wanted her so! Up

to the afternoon that you spoke of we had scarcely ever been alone

together, and we had never exchanged any intimate speech. But before

that, even in a crowd, I had been aware that she had a sympathy for me.

In short, she loved me. You may well wonder at that—a man like me!

But you see … she saw beneath the grinning mask I wear. She brought

out the best in me, that I have hidden for so many years. Even then I

had no thought of … I knew her too well!



“And then on the day you speak of, a note was brought to me by special

delivery from her. I had stored away scraps of her handwriting;

invitations and so on, and I never doubted but that it was from her.

Just four words: ‘Come to me quickly!’ I flew. When I entered her

sitting-room, she seemed surprised, but I thought that was just a

woman’s defence. I took her in my arms. She surrendered for a moment,

just a little moment; then she thrust me away.



“She denied having written to me. For a moment I did not believe

her—I had already burned the note, so I could not show it to her;

however, she made it abundantly clear she had not written it. Then we

realised somebody must be trying to entrap us, and we were alarmed.

But she said nobody could hurt us if we kept our heads up and walked

straight. She sent me away. Yes, it was for good! for good! There

was never any doubt about that. We were never to attempt to see each

other alone; we were not to write—except in case of desperate need.

It was I who exacted that. If the need was desperate, either of us

might write to the other.



“When I heard of her death—by her own hand as I thought … I felt

betrayed; I felt if things had come to that pass she might have sent

for me first…. Oh, well, you are not interested in my state of mind!

How gladly I would have put a pistol to my own head! I did not do so

because I could not bear to sully her name by having it connected with

mine. And so I kept on with the same old round, showing the same old

grin! I dared not stop for fear of people saying: ‘Oh, old Barry

Govett is broken-hearted because of, well, you know!’ … A pretty

world, isn’t it?” He finished with a harsh laugh.



Nobody said anything for a while.



Finally he raised his head. “But you have given me a renewed interest

in life,” he said grimly. “The same hand that forged that letter to me

afterwards forged the letter that lured her out to the pavilion.”



“There can be no doubt of that,” said Mme. Storey.



“By God!” said Govett quietly. “If the law doesn’t get him, I will!”



“Slowly!” said Mme. Storey. “There is no proof yet.”





V


I see upon referring to my notes that this took place upon a Friday

afternoon. Mr. Govett had not much more than left our place when Fay

Brunton dropped in. She looked sweet enough to eat. To our relief she

had left the inevitable mother behind on this occasion. Fay did not

take tea, but dined at six in order to have a short rest before going

to the theatre. She had just fifteen minutes before dinner, she said,

and had rushed around to tell us—her news, after what we had just

heard, was like a bombshell. I could scarcely repress a cry of dismay.



“Darius and I have decided to get married on Sunday morning.”



My mistress never changed a muscle of her smile.



“What!” she said with mock reproach, “must you abandon us so soon?”



“I am not abandoning you!” said Fay, giving her a kiss. “It’s the most

wonderful plan!” she went on happily. “You know little Larrimore, my

understudy, who is dying to have a chance at the part? Well, she is to

have it. For a whole week! It’s all been fixed up. It will be given

out that I am indisposed. The fact of our marriage will be allowed to

leak out later. And if Larrimore makes good she can keep the part.

It’s only that I don’t want anybody to lose any money through me.



“We are to be married on Sunday morning in the hotel. Strictly

private, of course. And immediately afterwards we’ll hop on a train

for Pinehurst. Think of Pinehurst after weather like this! And what

do you think? Darius has secured the loan of a private car from the

president of the railway! I’ve never been in a private car; have you?

And then a whole wonderful week in the woods!”



“Wonderful!” cried Mme. Storey, and there was not a tinge of anything

but sympathy in her voice. “But am I not to see you again? Tomorrow

is Saturday, and you have two performances.”



“How about tonight after the show?” suggested Fay.



Mme. Storey shook her head. “I have an engagement.” (This was not

true.) “How about tomorrow night after the show?” she went on. “I

must have a chance to give you a little party before you step off into

the gulf. Come here. My flat is too far up-town.”



Fay looked dubious. “I should love it,” she said, “but Darius, you

know. He hates parties.”



The expression in my mistress’s eyes said: Damn Darius! But she

laughed good-humouredly. “Oh, I don’t mean a party, my dear. Just

you and Darius and Mrs. Brunton; Bella and I.”



“I should love it,” said Fay. “If Darius doesn’t mind.”



“Why should Darius mind?” demanded my mistress. “Doesn’t he like me?”



“Oh, yes!” said Fay quickly. “He admires you ever so much!”



“Then why should he mind?”



The girl could not withstand the point-blank question. “Well, you

see,” she faltered, “he thinks … that you do not like him very much

… that you disapprove of him.”



“Fay,” challenged my mistress, “have I ever by word or look given you

any reason to suppose such a thing?”



“Oh, no, Rosika! And so I have told him. Over and over…. But he

still thinks so.”



“Now, look here,” said Mme. Storey. “I am never the one to interfere

between a married pair—or a soon-to-be-married pair, but you must make

a stand somewhere, my child, or you’ll soon find yourself a loving

little slave. I mean when you are in the right. Now this particular

notion of Darius’s is a silly notion, isn’t it?”



“Y-yes,” said Fay.



“Then you should not give in to it…. But look here, I’ll make it

easier for you. Let’s pretend that it’s your party. You tell Darius

that you have asked Bella and me to your hotel for supper after the

show on your last night, and he could not possibly object, could he?”



Fay’s face lighted up. “Oh, no!” she cried. “That will be splendid!”



“All right!” said Mme. Storey. “Expect us about quarter to twelve.

You’ll have it in your own rooms, of course, where we may be quite

free.”



“Now I must run!” said Fay.



“Oh, wait a minute!” pleaded Mme. Storey, slipping her arm through the

girl’s. “This is the last moment I shall see you alone! There are so

many things I want to talk to you about! … And now you have driven

them all out of my head…. Is the little nest ready in the East

Seventies?”



“It will be when we get back from Pinehurst.” Fay launched into an

enthusiastic description.



“And what happens to Oakhurst?” asked Mme. Storey.



“Oh, didn’t I tell you? Darius has put it into the hands of Merryman.

It’s to be sold, lock, stock and barrel.”



“And quite right, too…. By the way, do you know what Darius’s

movements will be tomorrow? I must see him if I can, in order to

remove this ridiculous wrong impression he has got of me.”



“You’re so kind, Rosika! All I know is, he’s going to sleep at his

rooms in the Vandermeer tonight, in order to be on hand early for all

the things he has to see to tomorrow.”



“Well, I’ll call him up at the Vandermeer.”



Arm in arm, they had been moving slowly out through my office with me

at their heels. They had now reached the door. Mme. Storey kissed the

girl fondly. My mistress was playing an elaborate game, but at least

there was nothing insincere about that gesture.



“One last thing,” she said. “I want to make you a little gift of some

sort…”



Fay made a gesture of dissent.



“When the news comes out you will be showered with all sorts of useless

things. I should like to give you something that you want. What

shall it be?”



“Oh, I’d much rather leave it to you, dear.”



“Well, I must think of something original.” She feigned to be

considering deeply. “I have it!” she said. “I will give you a

beautifully mounted gun with your name chased on the handle. Every

woman ought to have a gun.”



“Oh, thank you!” said Fay. “But I have one! Darius says too that

every woman ought to have a gun. He gave me one months ago.”



“Oh, yes, I remember,” said Mme. Storey. “What sort of gun?”



“A Matson 32, automatic.”



I shivered inwardly. Did the man buy them wholesale?



“Do you carry it about with you?” asked Mme. Storey, laughing.



“Oh, no,” said Fay simply. “I keep it in my bottom drawer.”



“Ah, well, I’ll have to think of something else then,” said Mme. Storey.



They embraced, and Fay went.



The instant the door closed after her, Mme. Storey said to me: “Quick,

Bella! Your hat!” She went to the window to wave her hand to Fay when

she issued below. While standing there, she continued to speak rapidly

to me. “Pick up a taxi, and go to Merryman’s. That’s the big real

estate office on Madison Avenue near Forty-Fourth Street. If it’s

closed, you’ll have to look up the address of one of the partners in

the telephone book, and go to his house. Apologise for disturbing him

and say that your employer (who wishes to remain unknown for the

moment) has just learned that the Whittall property in Riverdale has

come into the market. Ask for an order to view the place tomorrow.

Explain that, owing to your employer’s leaving for the West, tomorrow

is the only day he will have for the purpose…. Wait a minute! Fay

is just getting into her car…. Now she’s off. Run along!”





VI


Next morning we drove up to Riverdale in Mme. Storey’s own limousine,

but instead of her regular chauffeur, we had Crider at the wheel, an

admirable fellow, quiet and keen; the chief of all our operatives. I

pointed out to Mme. Storey that if anybody at the house was curious

about us, it would be an easy matter to find out who we were by tracing

the number of our licence.



“It doesn’t matter,” she said. “By tonight it will all be decided one

way or the other.”



Riverdale, as everybody knows, is not a “dale” at all, but a bold hill

on the mainland, just to the North of Manhattan Island. On the one

side it overlooks the Hudson River; on the other the flat expanse of

the Bronx with Van Cortlandt Park. The original village may have

started down by the river, but now the whole rocky height is thickly

covered with handsome new villas standing in their limited plots. It

is an exceedingly well-to-do community, but not fashionable. Fashion

has fled farther from town. “Oakhurst,” however, is a survival. It

was built and laid out by the first Darius Whittall in the days when “a

mansion on the Hudson” was synonymous with everything that was opulent

and eminent.



The grounds were of considerable extent. We drove in through beautiful

wrought iron gates and past a lodge in the English style. The house

was invisible from the road. We wound through a wood of evergreens and

oaks before coming to it in the midst of its lawns. It was a long,

irregular structure built of native stone. It had no particular

architectural pretensions, but the years had mellowed it. It looked

dignified and comfortable. This was the back of the house really; the

principal rooms faced the glorious prospect over the Hudson with the

Palisades beyond.



We drove up under a porte coch�re, and upon alighting, were received

by an irreproachable butler. This must have been Frost. I showed him

our order to view the place, and Mme. Storey expressed a wish to be

shown the grounds first. Whereupon he handed us over to the second

man, a sort of embryo butler; younger, fresh-faced; not yet able to

subdue his curiosity and interest at the sight of a woman so beautiful

as Madame Storey. He conducted us around the side of the house to the

head gardener, who was directing the operations of several men engaged

in setting out shrubs.



So we began our perambulations. There was only one thing about the

grounds that really interested us; i.e., the pavilion; but of course we

said nothing about it, waiting until we should arrive there in proper

order. In front of the house the ground fell away gradually in

beautiful flower-beds and terraces, to the edge of a steep declivity

which dropped to the river. The steep part was wooded in order to mask

the railway tracks below. At this season it was all rather sere and

leafless, except the grass, which was clipped and rolled to the

semblance of green velvet. Stables, garage and other offices were all

concealed behind shrubbery to the north of the house.



We could see the pavilion off to the left as we faced the river; that

is to say the southerly side. On this side the hill ran out in a

little point ending in a knoll, and on the knoll was the pavilion, in

the form of a little Greek temple with a flattened dome and a circle of

Doric columns. The winding path which led to it was bordered with

rhododendrons, backed with arbour vit�. As we approached, I pictured

the beautiful woman running down that path thinking she was going to

the man she loved, and I seemed to hear the shot that ended everything

for her. At the foot of the three steps one instinctively looked for

bloodstains in the grey gravel; but, of course, all such marks had been

erased long since.



Mme. Storey said to the gardener: “I should like to sit down here for

five minutes to look at the view. Will you come back?”



The man bowed and hurried away to look after his subordinates.



As we mounted the three steps Mme. Storey laid her hand against the

first pillar to the right. “Here,” she murmured, “the murderer waited

concealed, gun in hand.”



I shivered.



Inside, there was a circle of flat-topped marble benches. The view

from that spot is world famous. One could see both up and down the

glorious river for miles. Only within the last few years the

foreground had been defaced by the cutting of new streets and the

building of showy houses.



“Our first job is to decide how the murderer got here,” said Mme.

Storey. “He must have familiarised himself with the spot beforehand.”



“But, of course, he knew the spot!” I said, in surprise.



“Mustn’t jump to conclusions, my Bella!” she said with a smile. “To go

upon the assumption that we already know everything would only be to

warp the judgment. All that we can say so far is, some person unknown

to us stood behind that pillar and shot Mrs. Whittall.”



I thought she was over-scrupulous.



As soon as we looked down to the left, the means of access was clear.

The present boundary of the Whittall property was only about a hundred

feet away on this side. It was marked by a rough stone wall, not very

high; any determined person could have scrambled over it. On the other

side of the wall a new street had been laid off down to the river.

There were several new houses looking over the wall, and a boating club

house down at the end. Once over the wall it was an easy climb through

the dead leaves and thin undergrowth up to the pavilion.



“If one followed that street back over the hill and down into the

valley on the other side,” said Mme. Storey, “it would bring one out

somewhere in the vicinity of the subway terminal at Van Cortlandt Park.

That is the way he came. You cannot trace anybody on the subway.”



She went on: “Now, what did Whittall do with his wife’s revolver?”



“A search?” I asked anxiously, thinking what a little time we had.



“Oh, sit down,” she said, suiting the action to the word. “And appear

to be enjoying the view like me.” She produced a cigarette, and

lighted it. “Let us search in our heads first. Let us put it through

a process of elimination. We have something to go on in this instance

because we know our man.”



She presently went on: “During that minute when he was left alone with

the body, he took the revolver out of the drawer and dropped it in his

pocket. All during the time when the police were in the house it lay

there in his pocket, burning him! As soon as he could, he left the

house with his little flashlight as Mary has told us, and came this

way. He was looking for the letter then. He was afraid that his wife

might have carried it out in her hand, and dropped it when she fell.

Not finding any letter he had to dispose of the gun. Well, there he

was. He dared not stay out more than a few minutes. Put yourself in

his place, Bella. What would he do with it?”



I shook my head helplessly.



“I think his first impulse would be to toss it from him as far as he

could,” Mme. Storey resumed. “But it was night, you see, and the risk

would be too great that the morning light would reveal it. There are

too many men working on this place! For the same reason he wouldn’t

dare hide it in the shrubbery. He would next think of burying it, but

I don’t suppose Whittall had ever dug a hole in his life. Besides, he

would have to get a tool, which would take time, and anyway, where in

this carefully manicured place could he have buried it without

leaving tell-tale marks? Then there’s the river, that’s the ideal

hiding-place. But it’s too far away. It would take him twenty minutes

to go and come, not counting the time he spent looking for the letter,

and we have Mary’s word for it that he was not out of the house more

than ten…. I think he would have risked the trip to the river,

Bella, had he not known of water nearer to. For a guilty person with a

heavy object to hide instinctively thinks of water!”



We saw the gardener returning along the path.



Mme. Storey smiled on him. “I have a horror of mosquitoes,” she said

to him as he came up, “and I want to ask you if there is any standing

water on the place, or nearby. Any pond or pool or basin.”



“No, Madame,” was the reply. “Nothing of that sort anywhere in the

neighbourhood.”



“But are you sure?” she persisted sweetly. “They say that even a pan

of water is enough if it’s allowed to stand.”



“Well, there’s an old well down at the foot of the front lawn,” he said

good-humouredly. “But I hardly think the insects could breed there,

because it’s twenty feet down to the water.”



“Still I’d like to look at it,” said Mme. Storey. “If you wouldn’t

mind.”



“Certainly, Madame.”



He pointed out a path which led down to the right. As he led the way,

he gave us the history of the old well. “The original house on this

property stood on the edge of the steep bank, and this was the well

belonging to it. When Mr. Whittall’s grandfather pulled the old house

down, he did not fill up the well, but built an ornamental well-house

over it. But the late Mrs. Whittall thought it was incongruous, as it

was, and she had it removed. Her idea was to bring over an antique

well-curb from Italy, but for some reason this was never done, and so

at present it just has a temporary cover over it.”



In a hundred yards or so we came to the spot. It was on the lowest

level of the gardens and terraces in front of the house, One could

picture the old-fashioned farmhouse which had once stood there. The

magnificent elm which had shaded it had been allowed to remain. The

brickwork of the well projected a few inches above the ground, and over

it had been laid a heavy wooden cover with a trap in the middle, having

a ring.



“Will that open?” asked Mme. Storey, pointing.



He got down on his knees to pull it up, looking bored at these vagaries

of my mistress, but still respectful.



“I want to look in it,” she said.



He made place for her, and she in turn got down on her knees to peer

into the black hole.



Suddenly she clasped her breast. “Oh, my pin!” she cried, “It fell

in!” And got up with a face of tragedy.



The old gardener scratched his head. I think he was a Scotsman. He

looked utterly disgusted. Oh, the folly of these gentlefolk! his

expression said.



“It must be recovered!” my mistress said agitatedly. What an admirable

actress she was! “It must be recovered! I value it above price!”



“Well, ma’am, I suppose it can be got,” the man said slowly. “There’s

not above three feet of water in the bottom. I have a block and tackle

in the toolhouse. I will send one of the men down.”



“My chauffeur shall go down,” said Mme. Storey.



“No need of that, ma’am.”



“No, I insist! My chauffeur shall go down. If the others will help

him I shall see that all are well rewarded for their trouble. And you,

too!”



“As you wish, Madame.” He went off to summon help.



With a slight smile, Mme. Storey pressed an emerald barpin that she had

unfastened from somewhere or other into my hand, and sent me for

Crider. I found him still sitting like a wooden image at the wheel of

the car. I gave him the emerald, which he pinned inside his clothes,

and whispered his instructions. His eyes gleamed. We returned to the

old well.



The under-gardeners had gathered to help, and the old man was dragging

block and tackle towards the spot.



“This will take some time, I suppose,” said Mme. Storey when he came

up. “We had better be looking over the house while we wait.”



So we went back up the slope.



We had no particular interest in the interior of the house, but we went

over everything dutifully under the guidance of the butler. It was one

of the most attractive houses I ever was in. If I had never heard

anything else about the mistress of it I would have known by the inside

of her house that she was a superior woman. It had nothing of the

awful perfection usual to the houses of the very rich; nothing of the

museum look. It was full of character. There were no “period” rooms.



In order to give Crider plenty of time we made our tour last as long as

possible, but we had returned to the main floor before any word came

from him. There was a central hall which was furnished with

comfortable chairs. Mme. Storey said to the butler:



“If we may, we will wait here a little while. It is so cold outside.”



“Certainly, Madame,” he said, and withdrew. We had a feeling, though,

that he was lingering somewhere close by. Well, after all, we were

strangers in the house.



In a few minutes we heard a car approach swiftly through the crunching

gravel, and come to a stop with a grinding of brakes. Mme. Storey and

I looked at each other significantly. She shrugged. We heard the car

door slam outside, feet came running up the steps, and the front door

was flung open. There stood the master of the house. The light was

behind him, and I could not read his expression.



The thought instantly flew into my head that the butler, recognising

Mme. Storey, or perhaps suspecting us on general principles, had

telephoned to him. He had had just about time enough to drive up from

town.





VII


“What! Mme. Storey!” Whittall cried very affably. “What a surprise!

I had no idea that you were interested in my property. Why didn’t you

let me know?”



She ignored the question. “It is beautiful!” she said blandly, “but I

am afraid it is too expensive for me.”



They shook hands. I could see his face now. He had it under pretty

good control, but his eyes were narrow and sharp with curiosity. He

was a handsome man in his way, with dark, bright eyes in which there

was something both defiant and shifty. It was the look of a schoolboy

who knows he has a bad name, and is determined to brazen it out. Why

had not Fay Brunton’s instincts taken alarm? I wondered. But perhaps

Whittall only had that look when he faced my mistress.



“Oh, it’s too expensive for anybody to own as a residence now,” he said

with a laugh. “I supposed it would be bought by a real estate

operator, and subdivided…. Have you seen everything?”



“Yes, thank you,” said Mme. Storey. “We were just waiting for a few

minutes. I had the misfortune to lose a piece of jewellery in the

grounds, and they are looking for it.”



“Ah, I am so sorry!” While he smiled in polite sympathy, his sharp

eyes sought to bore into her, but my mistress’s face presented a

surface as smooth as tinted china.



“We might as well go and see what they are about,” she said, moving

towards the door.



“Don’t hurry away!” he begged. “I don’t often have the chance of

entertaining you.”



However, at this moment the butler appeared, to announce that Madame’s

pin had been found, and we all moved out to the front steps. Crider

was there, and the head gardener. Crider passed over the emerald, and

with a meaning look gave his mistress to understand that he had been

successful in his other quest. A great relief filled me. Whittall had

not come home in time to frustrate us. Mme. Storey was loud in her

protestations of thankfulness. She opened her purse to reward the

gardener and his men.



“Where was it found?” asked Whittall.



The gardener spoke up. “At the bottom of the old well, sir.”



It must have given Whittall a hideous shock. I scarcely had the heart

to look at him. He uttered no sound; his eyes were divested of all

sense. His florid face went greyish, leaving a network of tiny,

purplish veins outlined against the greyness. Several times he essayed

to speak before any sound came out.



“Come inside a minute,” he gabbled. “Come inside … come inside!”



Mme. Storey looked at Crider, and he followed us inside. My mistress

had no notion of trusting herself alone with that madman. Whittall led

the way across the hall, walking with such quick short steps as to give

almost a comic effect. He opened the door of the library for us to

pass in. He was for shutting it in Crider’s face, but Mme. Storey

stopped him with a steady look. So Crider entered and waited with his

back against the door. It was a beautiful, quiet room upholstered in

maroon, with three tall windows reaching to the floor.



Whittall was in a pitiably unnerved state. Consider the height that he

had fallen from. On the eve of his marriage, too. He drew a bottle

from a cabinet, and poured himself a drink with shaking hands. Gulped

it down at a draught. He went to the windows and jerked at the curtain

cords senselessly, though they were already opened to their widest.

Again, one was reminded of something comic in his attempt to make out

that there was nothing the matter. Finally he asked in a thick voice:



“Am I to have any explanation of this extraordinary visit?”



“I would not insist on it, Whittall,” said my mistress, almost

regretfully, one would have said.



“I do insist on it,” he said quickly.



“Very well. It was not an emerald pin, of course, that I was looking

for at the bottom of the well.”



“What was it then?”



She turned to the door. “What did you find there, Crider?”



“A Matson 32 automatic, Madame. The magazine is full.”



“Hand it over!” said Whittall.



Crider, naturally, made no move to obey.



“This is mere folly,” said my mistress calmly; “it is to be handed over

to an authority higher than yours.”



“Of what do you accuse me?” he cried wildly.



“Of nothing yet, except throwing this gun down the well.”



“It’s a lie! It’s a lie! I never saw it before!”



“Then why all this excitement?”



He turned away biting his fingers.



“This is worse than useless,” said Mme. Storey. “Open the door,

Crider.”



Whittall instantly became abject and cringing. “Wait a minute!” he

implored. “Give me a chance to explain. Oh, my God! this frightful

unexpected accusation has driven me out of my senses. Give me a chance

to recover myself. Don’t you see what you are doing? You are ruining

me beyond hope. And all for nothing! All for nothing! I am as

innocent as a child!”



I am afraid we all smiled grimly at this last cry of his. However,

Mme. Storey waited.



“Give me a little time!” he muttered. He took another drink. He then

said in a stronger voice: “Send those people out of the room, and I’ll

tell you all.”



“These two are my trusted employees,” said Mme. Storey. “We three are

as one. You may explain or not, just as it suits you.”



After a moment’s hesitation he said: “I will explain on one condition,

that, if my explanation is a reasonable one, you promise you will not

proceed against me immediately. But if you are determined to proceed

against me anyhow, what’s the use of my telling you anything. You can

go ahead and be damned to you.”



This was too much for Crider. “I’ll trouble you to be civil to Madame

Storey,” he said, flushing.



My mistress silenced him with a gesture. To Whittall she said coolly:

“I am not prepared to proceed against you yet. As to the future I make

no promises. Are you willing on your part to give me your word of

honour that you will not marry until this matter is cleared up?”



“Certainly!” he said quickly. “Word of honour…. But, don’t tell Fay

yet. It would break her heart.”



“I have no intention of doing so, yet,” said Mme. Storey dryly.



There was a considerable silence.



“We are waiting for the explanation,” said Mme. Storey at length.



Whittall turned around. He had evidently decided on his course. “It

is true that that is my wife’s gun,” he said without hesitation, “and

that I threw it down the well. But I swear as God is in His Heaven

that I did not shoot her. The reason I acted as I did was to prevent a

scandal. I immediately suspected that she had been murdered. Well, a

dirty scandal would not have given her back to me; it would only have

besmirched her reputation still further.”



“I know all about the ‘other man,’” said Mme. Storey coolly. “I have

talked with him. If you are suggesting that he shot her, I answer that

it is impossible that he could have done so.”



Whittall’s face was a study while she was saying this. Finally he

shrugged. “In that case,” he said sullenly, “I know no more than the

next man who did it.”



“What gave you reason to suspect that it was murder?” asked Mme. Storey.



“Oh, the general circumstances.”



“Nobody else suspected such a thing.”



He shrugged indifferently.



Nothing more seemed to be forthcoming, and presently Mme. Storey said:

“Your explanation so far is no explanation.”



He turned away, visibly in a state of indecision. Then he flung around

again. “Oh, hell! I suppose it’s all got to come out now!” he cried.

“I was warned of her murder!”



“Beforehand?” Mme. Storey asked sternly.



“No. What do you think I am? … Shortly after it was committed. That

is why I came home so early … I was dining with a friend. I was

called to the telephone. A voice, unknown to me, said without any

preliminary explanation: ‘Your wife has just been shot. If you want to

avoid a nasty scandal, you had better hurry home and dispose of her

revolver, so that it will look like a suicide.’”



I could not help smiling at this tale. It sounded so preposterous.

Mme. Storey, however, was grave enough.



“A man’s voice or a woman’s voice?” she asked.



“A man’s.”



“Can you offer corroboration of this?”



“Certainly.”



“Where were you dining, and with whom?”



“What right have you to cross-examine me?” he said, scowling.



“Oh, if you’d rather tell the district attorney…” said Mme. Storey

calmly.



“I was with Max Kreuger, the manager of Miss Brunton’s company,” he

said sullenly. “We were at the Norfolk. It is not a hotel that I

frequent, but we had some private business to discuss, and I didn’t

want to be recognised.”



“Yet the person who called you up knew where to find you?”



He flung out his hands violently. “You’ll have to figure that out as

best you can! It beats me!”



Mme. Storey took a thoughtful turn up and down.



Whittall went on: “It has been established by a dozen witnesses that

the fatal shot was fired at nine-thirty. Kreuger will testify that at

that hour I was dining with him in the Norfolk—ten miles away from

here. So your case against me collapses. Kreuger will tell you

further that about ten minutes past ten I was called to the ‘phone.

Naturally I did not tell him the nature of the message I received. But

he’ll tell you that I left immediately. Before eleven I was back here.

I suppose the taxicab driver who brought me here can be found too, if

he is looked for… Kreuger is in his office now. Come with me and

question him, and let this ridiculous charge be laid once and for all.”



Mme. Storey agreed to the proposal. Again she pointed out to Whittall

that she had not yet made any charge.



There was a brief discussion as to how we should dispose ourselves for

the drive to town. Naturally we did not intend to let Whittall out of

our sight. I thought we all ought to go in Mme. Storey’s car, but she

ruled otherwise. She and I and Whittall would ride in his car, she

said, and Crider could bring her car along after.



While Whittall waited for us in his car, biting his fingers with

impatience, Mme. Storey gave Crider his private instructions: “Do not

follow us, but drive to your own place as quickly as possible, and

change. Telephone Younger to come and get the car. You had also

better get in touch with Stephens. Get back to the Adelphi theatre as

soon as you can. Whittall will be there in Max Kreuger’s office. You

and Stephens between you are to keep Whittall under observation until

further notice, reporting to me at my office by ‘phone as often as you

are able.”



That was hardly a cheerful drive. Mme. Storey and Whittall sat side by

side on the back seat without exchanging a single word the whole way.

Whittall crouched in his corner, scowling and biting his fingers. If

Fay could have watched him then, that in itself ought to have given her

pause. Whittall had a skilful chauffeur, of course. He had a special

instinct to warn him of a traffic policeman. When the road was clear

he opened his throttle to its widest, and we sped like a bullet. Then

at certain moments he abruptly slowed down, and sure enough, presently

the brass buttons would appear. We made Times Square in twenty-five

minutes.



The Adelphi was one of the newer theatres in that neighbourhood. Its

name has been changed now. At this time Whittall was reputed to be the

owner, but I do not know if this was so. It was perfectly clear though

that Max Kreuger was Whittall’s creature. Wild Hyacinth, I should

say, was not showing at the Adelphi, but at the Yorktown, farther down

Broadway, which had a greater seating capacity.



A deceitful air of activity pervaded the offices. Apart from

rehearsals, theatrical business seems to consist of lengthy

conversations which end exactly where they begin. There were a number

of depressed-looking actors of both sexes sitting around the outer

office waiting for an interview with the manager. Yet Kreuger as we

presently discovered was alone in his office, with his heels cocked up

on his desk. Whittall marched straight into the private office with us

at his heels. Snatching the cigar from his lips, Kreuger leaped to his

feet. He was a rosy, plump little man of the type that I have heard

described as a fore-and-aft Jew; a blond. He looked astonished, as

well he might, at the combination which faced him.



Without the slightest preamble, Whittall cried out with a wave of his

hand: “There he is. Ask him what you want.” And went to the window

where he turned his back to us.



Kreuger, greatly flustered, began to pull chairs out, and to mumble

courtesies.



“Never mind, thanks,” said Mme. Storey. “We won’t sit down. Just

answer a few questions, please. It is by Mr. Whittall’s wish that we

have come.”



“Anything, Madame Storey, anything within my power!” the little man

murmured fulsomely.



“What were you doing on the evening of Sunday, September 11th?”



Kreuger was horridly taken aback. He stared at us in a witless fashion

and pulled at his slack lower lip. His distracted eyes sought his

master for guidance, but received none, Whittall’s back being turned.



“Well, speak up, can’t you?” barked Whittall, without turning around.



“Yes … yes … of course,” stammered Kreuger, sparring for time.

“Let me see … September 11th … I can’t seem to remember offhand.

I shall have to look it up.”



“That was the night of Mrs. Whittall’s death,” Mme. Storey reminded him.



“Oh, to be sure! that dreadful night!” said Kreuger in suitable tones

of horror. “That was the night of the private showing of the

super-film ‘Ashes of Roses.’ I looked in at that.”



This was certainly not the answer that Whittall looked for. He whirled

around with a face of terror. I rejoiced that we had caught the

villains napping, as it seemed. Something had gone wrong with their

concerted story.



“Tell the truth!” gasped Whittall.



“Eh? … What?” stammered Kreuger, blinking.



“Tell the truth, I said!” cried Whittall in a fury, banging the desk.



“Oh, to be sure! To be sure!” stuttered the demoralised Kreuger. “Mr.

Whittall and I had dinner together that night. At the Hotel Norfolk.”



I smiled to myself. This came a little late, I thought. It sounded as

if it had been got by heart.



“Why did you not say so at once?” asked Mme. Storey.



“Well, it was a private meeting, Madame. We had business to discuss.

I didn’t think that Mr. Whittall wanted it known.”



“At what time did you meet?”



“Half-past seven.”



“Describe what happened.”



“Well, we had our dinner. Afterwards we went out to the smoking

lounge. Shortly after ten, a boy came through paging Mr. Darius

Whittall. Mr. Whittall was surprised, because he had not thought that

anybody knew where he was. Everybody in the room looked up, hearing

that name. At first Mr. Whittall wasn’t going to identify himself.

Just some trifler, he said, or a newspaper reporter. But he was

curious to find out who had got hold of his name. So after the boy had

gone on, he went out to the office. In a minute or two he came back.

He looked very agitated. All he said was: ‘Something wrong at home.’

He got his hat and coat, and jumped in a taxicab.”



“Now are you satisfied that I didn’t do it?” cried Whittall.



“Quite!” said Mme. Storey.



I was surprised at this answer. Still I supposed she had her own

reasons for making it.



She asked them both a number of further questions, which they answered

readily. Whittall rapidly quieted down. It had the effect of a

genuine cross-examination, but knowing my mistress so well, I could see

that she was only stalling for time. She did not want Whittall to get

away from there until Crider was waiting outside to pick him up.

Nothing of moment to the case was brought out by their answers.



Finally we went. The street outside was crowded, and I could not pick

out Crider anywhere, but I had no doubt he was safely at his post.

Just the same I felt that we were doing wrong to go away and leave

Whittall like that, free to work his own nefarious schemes. And as we

drove away in a taxicab I voiced something to that effect.



“But we have no reason to order him detained,” said Mme. Storey calmly.

“He didn’t shoot his wife.”



“What!” I cried, astonished. “You still doubt that!”



“No,” said Mme. Storey, smiling at the heat I betrayed. “I’m sure he

didn’t.”



“But obviously that man Kreuger was ready to swear to anything that

would please him!”



“Obviously!” she agreed.



“And the story about the telephone call—fancy anybody calling him up

and saying: ‘Your wife has been shot.’ Just like that. Why, it’s

preposterous!”



“Quite!” said Mme. Storey. “Whittall is far too clever a man to have

offered me so preposterous a story if it were not true. There is

nothing so preposterous as the truth sometimes.”



“Well, if he didn’t do it himself he certainly had it done,” I said

excitedly. “And that telephone message was from his hireling telling

him that the job was accomplished.”



But Mme. Storey still shook her head.



“What makes you so sure Whittall wasn’t responsible?” I asked

helplessly.



“It’s so simple,” she said. “If Whittall had plotted to shoot his

wife, he would have shot her with her own gun, wouldn’t he? And then

we never would have known.”



I looked at her in silence. Why, of course! My theory went down like

a house of cards.



“No,” she went on gravely, “here’s the best part of the day gone, and

we’re almost where we were yesterday evening…. Well, not quite.

Because Whittall told one little lie, which will appear later.”



“Then are we up against a blank wall?” I asked, discouraged.



“Oh, no,” was her surprising answer. “I know who did it.”



I looked my breathless question.



But she only shook her head. “No evidence,” she said, frowning. “Not

a shred! It’s almost the perfect crime, my Bella!”





VIII


Mme. Storey and I returned to the office. We found her car waiting out

in front for orders. The chauffeur, Younger, handed over the gun

fished from the well at Oakhurst, which Crider had given him for safe

keeping. Mme. Storey, in my presence, marked the gun for subsequent

identification. We found a number of matters awaiting our attention,

which we got out of the way as quickly as possible. Meanwhile, we

ordered in a light lunch of sandwiches and milk.



While she munched her sandwiches, Mme. Storey paced slowly up and down

the long room, considering deeply. With the last bite she evidently

finished mapping out her course of action. Her first move was to call

up Fay Brunton in her dressing-room at the theatre. They had an

aimless friendly talk, which was, however, not so aimless on my

mistress’s part as might have been supposed, for she found out: (a)

that Fay had not seen nor heard from Darius Whittall since we had left

him: (b) that she was still looking forward to the supper party in her

rooms that night. I also marked this bit:



“I saw the new film ‘Ashes of Roses’ last night,” said Mme. Storey. (I

knew this was not true.) “Have you seen it?” Fay’s answer ran to some

length. It was evidently in the negative, for Mme. Storey said: “Well,

you ought to. It’s really quite tremendous.” The talk then passed to

other matters.



Mme. Storey then called up Inspector Rumsey at Headquarters. She asked

him if he had succeeded in tracing Whittall’s purchase of the guns. He

replied that he had full information. She then got him to tell her

what his movements would be that afternoon and night, so that we could

get in touch with him any time we might need him.



Crider called us up to report that Darius Whittall had called upon the

President of the –- Railroad. Crider was not able to say, of course,

what was the occasion of the visit. Upon hearing this Mme. Storey

instructed Crider to send Stephens to the –- Terminal to find out as

best he could what order had been received respecting the President’s

private car.



I must try to set down in order all that we did that afternoon. The

significance of much of it did not become clear to me until night.

First; an operative was despatched to the garage run in connection with

the Hotel Madagascar (where Fay lived) with instructions to learn what

he could about the movements of Miss Brunton’s cars on the night of

September 11th. Fay kept two cars; a brougham which was driven by a

chauffeur and a smart little convertible that she drove herself. It

appeared that in this very up-to-date garage a complete record was kept

of the movements of all the cars stored there. Every time they went

out their mileage was taken, and again when they came in. This was to

prevent their use for unauthorised purposes.



Second; an operative (this one a woman) was sent to interview Miss

Beatrice Dufaye, the well-known cinema star, in the guise of a

representative of some mythical magazine. Miss Dufaye was the star of

“Ashes of Roses,” a picture which was the sensation of the moment, and

at present she was resting at her country place at Glen Cove before

starting work on her next picture. Among other things, this operative

was instructed to ask certain questions relative to the private showing

of “Ashes of Roses” on September 11th. This had been made a great

social occasion in theatrical circles.



A third operative was instructed to learn the present whereabouts of

Mr. Frank Esher. Esher, you will remember, was the young man who was

deeply in love with Fay Brunton, and for whom we suspected she had a

tenderness in return. After a quarrel or a series of quarrels, he had

flown off to parts unknown. This operative was furnished with the

address of his last employers, his club, and his last home address.



Finally I received my assignment. “Bella,” said my mistress, “I want

you to go to Tiffany’s with me, to help choose Fay’s wedding present.”



It struck me as very strange that we should spend our time this way

when matters were at such a critical juncture; and especially as we

were determined to prevent this wedding if we could. However, I said

nothing. We used up a good hour choosing the most beautiful amongst

all the tiny platinum and jewelled watches they showed us.



“Take it to the hotel,” said Mme. Storey, “and give it to her maid to

keep until Fay returns from the theatre. You may let the maid have a

peep at it as a great favour. This ought to put you on an intimate

footing at once. You will no doubt find her packing her mistress’s

things for the journey tomorrow. It will seem quite natural for you to

show curiosity in Fay’s pretty things. Take plenty of time. Fay

cannot get home until nearly six if she comes at all. Ordinarily, on

matin�e days, she has dinner in her dressing-room. I want you to find

out what Fay was doing on the night of September 11th.”



“What Fay was doing?” I echoed, greatly disquieted.



Mme. Storey looked at me in a way which did not allay my uneasiness.

“Have patience, Bella. I cannot yet foresee how all this is going to

turn out.”



She drove off up to Riverdale again with the object of recovering the

gun which Whittall had presented to the Captain of the precinct. It

was from this gun that the fatal shot had been fired.



I proceeded to the Madagascar, that towering palace of luxury. Fay,

like most women in her position, had two maids, one of whom waited upon

her in the hotel, and one at the theatre. I was already slightly

acquainted with Katy Meadows, her hotel maid, and of course the nature

of my errand immediately broke the ice between us. Katy was a pretty,

vivacious Irish girl with naturally rosy cheeks. Fay spoiled her.

Katy looked on me as a sort of superior servant like herself, and was

quite free with me. She went into raptures over the watch.



Just as Mme. Storey had said, I found her packing. Fay’s things were

spread over the whole suite. I did not have to express any curiosity,

for Katy insisted on showing me everything; hats, wraps, dresses,

lingerie, shoes in endless profusion. It was immoral that one woman

should possess so much, but oh! what a fascinating display!

Unfortunately, I had something else on my mind, and was unable to give

myself up to the contemplation of it. The suite consisted of three

rooms; a corner sitting-room with Fay’s bedroom on one side and Mrs.

Brunton’s on the other.



After we had finished rhapsodising over the watch I lingered on. Katy

was bustling from room to room bearing armfuls of Fay’s things that had

to be packed. She was in a great state of fluster.



“Four o’clock!” she cried. “Mercy! I must get a move on me! They’re

going to have a supper party here after the show, and everything must

be out of here before that, and the place tidied up…. But don’t you

go, Miss Brickley. Sit down and talk to me. It keeps me going….”



In the end it was not at all difficult to get what I wanted. I led up

to the matter as I had heard Mme. Storey do over the ‘phone.



“I went to see ‘Ashes of Roses’ last night. It’s a dandy picture.

Have you seen it?”



“No,” said Katy. “I must wait until it shows in the cheaper houses.”



“That was a great party they had the night of the private showing last

September,” I went on. “I suppose your folks went. They say all the

famous people on Broadway were there.”



“Mrs. Brunton went,” said Katy unsuspiciously, “but at the last moment

Miss Fay wouldn’t go. Said she didn’t feel good.”



“I thought she was never sick,” I ventured.



“Oh, not sick,” said Katy. “Just wanted to stay quiet and read. I

left her in bed reading. I remember that’s the night I saw A. J.

Burchell, in ‘Well-Dressed Wives.’ Don’t you love him?”



So much for that.



While I was in the suite, things were still arriving from the shops. I

remember I was looking at a marvellous n�glig�e when the telephone

rang. From Katy’s responses I understood that it was Fay calling from

the theatre. Fay was evidently issuing somewhat complicated

instructions, to which Katy returned breathless affirmatives.



Katy finally hung up, and turned around with wide eyes. “What do you

think!” she cried. “They’ve changed all their plans. They’re going

away this evening instead of tomorrow morning!”



I thought that was the end of everything. Mme. Storey had gone up to

Riverdale, and I didn’t know when she’d get back. Luckily Katy was too

much excited herself to notice the effect that her announcement had on

me.



“For the Lord’s sake,” she cried. “You never know what they’re going

to do next! … I’m to pack the dressing-case and the small wardrobe

trunk, and leave everything else to Maud. I’m to take the things to

the –- Terminal—my own things too, and meet them in the Grand

Concourse at six-thirty!”



There was only one thing for me to do, and that was to get out as quick

as I could. Which I did. What was I to do? I felt desperate. If I

tried to go after Mme. Storey, likely I would only pass her somewhere

coming back. I didn’t dare call up the police station at Riverdale,

because I didn’t know if she would give her right name there, and if I

mentioned it, I might upset all her plans. There was nothing for it

but to return to the office and wait for her. At the worst, I was

prepared to go myself to the Terminal, and denounce Whittall in public,

though I died for it.



To my great relief that was not required of me. At the end of an hour,

Mme. Storey came into the office bringing a very pretty young lady whom

I had not seen before. She introduced her as Miss Larrimore. I was

too excited at the moment to remember that this was the name of Fay’s

understudy.



“Miss Larrimore wanted to see our offices,” Mme. Storey explained

amiably.



Perceiving from my face that something had happened, Mme. Storey

allowed the girl to pass on into the long room, while she lingered in

my office. I hurriedly made my communication. Mme. Storey was not in

the least disturbed. Indeed, she laughed merrily.



“I fancied that some such move might be made,” she said. “So I

kidnapped Fay’s understudy. I expect they’re looking for her now.”



“But … but where did you find her?” I asked, amazed.



“Oh, I knew that after reporting at the theatre for every performance,

she was free to go home if Fay had turned up in good health. So I went

to her boarding-house, and asked her to go for a drive. We’ll take her

back directly. It will be fun!”



From her handbag Mme. Storey took an automatic pistol, and put a mark

on it in my presence, before dropping it in the drawer of my desk.

This weapon was identical with the one which had been recovered from

the well at Oakhurst that morning.



My mistress did not hurry herself at all. After showing Miss Larrimore

her artistic treasures she announced that she would drive her up-town.

“I’m going to drop in on Fay at the theatre,” said Mme. Storey. “You

come along too.”



It was not the first time that Mme. Storey and I had applied at the

stage door of the Yorktown theatre, and we were admitted without

question. The star of the company was allotted two rooms on the level

of the stage; the outer was used to receive her friends in, while the

inner was devoted to the mysteries of make-up and dress. When the

outer door was opened we heard the voices of several people within.

Mme. Storey slyly bade Miss Larrimore to enter first, while she hung

back with a smile. Cries of relief greeted the understudy.



“Oh, here you are!”



Then Mme. Storey entered with me at her heels. They were all there;

Whittall, Kreuger, Mrs. Brunton and Fay. My mistress’s appearance

created a startling effect. Whittall was arrested in full flight, so

to speak. The man froze where he stood. His face turned livid.

Kreuger was frankly terrified; while Mrs. Brunton was herself, for

once. She snarled. She could not have known what had taken place that

day, but she saw clearly enough that her darling scheme was endangered.

Fay swam towards us, perfectly candid in her gladness. Whittall made

an involuntary move to stop her—then he saw it was useless.



“Rosika and Bella!” cried Fay. “What a lucky chance! I was just about

to write you. Darius said it would sound too casual to telephone. I

am afraid our little party for tonight must be off, my dears. But

Darius says we shall have a big one as soon as we get back. Our plans

are all changed. It turns out that the private car is required in New

York on Tuesday, and we have to use it tonight or not at all. I

suppose I am silly, but my heart was set on that private car. So we’re

off at seven o’clock. Miss Larrimore will play my part tonight. We’ll

be married in Pinehurst tomorrow.”



Mme. Storey looked at Whittall with a cold smile. He visibly writhed

under it. He had given her his word of honour, you remember. The

tension of that moment was almost unbearable. Everybody in the room

was aware of it except the two girls who were laughingly whispering

about the night’s performance. There was something inexpressibly

touching in the sight of their happy ignorance.



Finally Mme. Storey spoke. “I’m afraid I’ve got the thankless job of

throwing a monkey-wrench into the works,” she said.



“What do you mean?” asked Fay, laughing.



“I can’t let Mr. Whittall go away tonight.”



One can imagine what a hell of rage and frustration Whittall was

undergoing during those moments. I don’t suppose that the arrogant

millionaire’s will had ever been crossed before.



“What!” said Fay, opening her eyes wide.



“Some time ago,” said Mme. Storey coolly, “Mr. Whittall promised to

back me in a scheme I was getting up to open a studio building for poor

artists. My plans are ripe now, and I have called a meeting for

tomorrow. I am counting on him.”



“Oh, but surely,” said Fay, more and more surprised, “under the

circumstances, can’t somebody appear for him? can’t it be put off for a

few days?”



“No,” said Mme. Storey with cold firmness.



From astonishment Fay graduated to indignation. Suspecting enmity in

my mistress, she turned from her. “Darius!” she said.



What a bitter moment for him! He hesitated. His eyes glittered in the

direction of my mistress with an expression of reckless rage. But upon

meeting her cold glance they fell again. He knew that the word

“murder” had only to be whispered to destroy his chances for ever. “I

gave her my word,” he mumbled, grinding his teeth. “I’ve got to stick

to it.”



Fay’s gentle eyes flashed. She could see now that there was much more

in this than appeared on the surface. But pride would not allow her to

ask any more questions. She was much angrier at her renegade lover

than she was at Mme. Storey.



“Oh, well, of course it doesn’t make any difference,” she said, tossing

her head. She slipped her hand under Miss Larrimore’s arm. “I’m only

sorry on your account, my dear.” She drew the other girl into the

inner room.





IX


The events which succeeded this scene were simply baffling to me. Katy

was ordered back from the station to the hotel, and told to unpack all

her mistress’s things and put them away. The private car was

cancelled. At this, Mrs. Brunton could no longer contain her feelings.

She burst out at Mme. Storey wildly.



“How dare you come here interfering in our private affairs! What does

your silly meeting mean to us when Darius and Fay are going to be

married! I never heard of such a thing….”



The outburst was quite natural. Mrs. Brunton had had a hard life, and

Whittall’s twenty millions blinded her to all other considerations.

There is no doubt but she loved Fay as if she had been her own child.



Now Whittall, when he heard this, executed a rapid volte-face. A

moment before he had seemed absolutely suffocated with rage against

Mme. Storey; now he turned against Mrs. Brunton, and roughly silenced

her. “Mme. Storey is our friend,” he said. “You have no reason to

speak to her in that manner. This is important. She knows what she is

doing.”



Mrs. Brunton didn’t know what to make of it, and no more did I. To my

further astonishment, Mme. Storey allowed a reconciliation to be

patched up, and when I left she and Whittall were chatting together as

amicably as you please. Since Fay was to go on as usual, her supper

had been ordered in. I can’t tell you what happened after that,

because I had been sent to the office with private instructions to

receive the reports of the various operatives who had been detailed on

the case, and forward them to Mme. Storey at the theatre. I supposed

that she and Whittall remained at the theatre throughout the

performance, exchanging compliments—and watching each other.



During the evening Mme. Storey called me up to say that the little

party would take place in Fay’s rooms after the performance as at first

arranged, and that I was to be there. She instructed me to get in

touch with Inspector Rumsey, and to ask him to be waiting in the lobby

of the Madagascar at quarter to twelve. I possessed no key to Mme.

Storey’s plans, and this latter message caused a feeling of dread to

weigh on my breast.



In due course I went home to change my dress, and then proceeded to the

hotel. I saw the Inspector waiting in the lobby, and nodded to him as

I passed. When I was shown up to Fay’s suite I found that I was the

first to arrive. Katy pounced on me to learn the inner reasons for her

mistress’s second extraordinary change of plans, but I had no heart to

gossip with the maid.



There was a table ready set for six persons. It looked lovely with its

snowy cloth set off with glass and silver and flowers. All around the

white panelled walls relieved with an old messotint or two there were

pink-shaded lights bracketed in threes, and casting down a pleasant

glow on the comfortable furniture covered with crisp cretonnes. Only

the most expensive places dare to be as simple as that. There were

flowers everywhere in the room. To me there was a horrible irony in

the sight of all this dainty preparation for such a scene.



Fay, Mrs. Brunton, Darius Whittall and Kreuger came in together. Their

faces gave nothing away.



“Where is Mme. Storey?” I asked involuntarily.



“She’ll be up directly,” said Fay. “She met a friend in the lobby.”



I supposed this was Rumsey.



Fay and Mrs. Brunton disappeared within their respective bedrooms to

remove their wraps. When Fay left the room something of the inferno of

passion that was consuming Whittall broke through the mask he wore. He

looked at me as much as to say: What the hell are you doing here? I

paid no attention. Mme. Storey entered, and he smiled at her

obsequiously. Mme. Storey lit a cigarette, and lingered in the

sitting-room exchanging some trivial remarks with Whittall until Fay

returned. She then said something about tidying herself, and entered

Fay’s room alone.



When she came back we sat down at the table, and the waiters entered.

Mme. Storey, alone of the women, was not in evening dress, nevertheless

by her mere presence she dominated the scene. Everybody else was

trying to be funny. There was a ghastly hollowness about it. Whittall

was the loudest of all. Fay seemed pleasant towards him, but I

suspected that her pleasant manner concealed a certain reserve. Mrs.

Brunton seemed to be satisfied that everything was going well, as long

as there was plenty of noise.



Fay occupied the place of honour at the head of the table, with Mme.

Storey on one hand, and me on the other. Kreuger sat next to Mme.

Storey, and Mrs. Brunton next to me. Whittall faced Fay across the

table. Fay, I remember, was wearing a pale pink gown embroidered with

self-coloured beads in a quaint design. It lent her beauty an

exquisite fragility. When he thought nobody was looking at him, I

would catch Whittall gazing at her like a lost soul.



The meal, I suppose, left nothing to be desired. I cannot remember

what we ate or drank. Some day I hope I may be invited to such a

perfect little supper when my mind is at peace. This one was wasted on

all of us. It was soon over, and the cigarettes lighted. Mrs. Brunton

chattered on.



“There was twenty-one hundred dollars in the house tonight. That’s a

hundred and fifty more than capacity.”



“How do you do that sum?” asked Whittall facetiously.



“Standees,” said Mrs. Brunton. “… And what a house! So warm and

responsive. I could have hugged them to my breast!”



“Rather an armful,” put in Whittall.



“And when she finished her waltz song, didn’t they rise to her! Oh, it

was wonderful! Never have I heard such applause! And didn’t she look

sweet when she came out to acknowledge it? I declare her pretty eyes

were full of real tears!”



“Well, I thought maybe it was the last time,” said Fay.



“I thought they would never let her go!” Mrs. Brunton rhapsodised.

“She took fourteen calls!”



“Oh, mamma!” protested Fay, laughing. “Draw it mild!”



“Fourteen!” said Mrs. Brunton firmly. “I said it, and I stick to it!

Fourteen!”



She appealed to Whittall and to Kreuger, and they made haste to agree

in order to shut her up.



“One doesn’t have to exaggerate the successes of a girl like Fay,” she

went on complacently. “I saw Mildred Mortimer and her mother hidden

away at the back of the house. I can. imagine what their feelings

were!”



Such was Mrs. Brunton’s style. She turned it on like a tap. She had

been something of a beauty in her day, and she looked quite handsome

tonight in her black evening gown, with her hair freshened up with

henna, and prettily dressed.



Whittall, I remember, made an effort to break up the party. “Fay, you

look tired,” he said. “I think we’d better beat it.”



Fay protested. Kreuger, always eager to take a hint from his master,

pushed his chair back. No one else moved. I saw Mme. Storey, for whom

this suggestion was really intended, glance at her wrist watch. Then

she helped herself to a cigarette, and gave the conversation a fresh

start.



The crisis was precipitated by an innocent question of Fay’s. “Why are

you so quiet, Rosika?”



“I am thinking of that poor lady who is dead,” said Mme. Storey gravely.



It was like an icy hand laid on each heart there. A deathly silence

fell on us. It seemed to last for ever. I felt paralysed. Mrs.

Brunton was the first to recover herself. She was afraid of Mme.

Storey, and dared not be openly rude, but her anger was evident enough

in her voice.



“Oh, I say! What a thing to bring up at such a time and place! I’m

surprised at you, Mme. Storey!”



“We are all thinking of her,” said Mme. Storey. “It would be better to

clear our minds of the subject.”



“I wasn’t thinking of her, I assure you!”



Even the gentle Fay was resentful. “It’s not fair to Darius,” she

murmured.



“Darius is a man and must face things!”



I glanced at Whittall. He had the look of one braced to receive a

fatal stroke.



“I am so sorry for her!” murmured Fay distressfully. “I often think

about her and wonder… But, Rosika, is it my fault that I am happy?

that I have everything, while she is dead?”



Mme. Storey made no reply to this.



“She solved her problems in her own way!” cried Mrs. Brunton excitedly.

“Who shall blame her? Can’t you leave her in peace?”



“She did not kill herself,” said Mme. Storey slowly. “She was

murdered.”



Again that awful silence. Horror crushed us.



Whittall lost his grip on himself. “You promised me … you promised

me…!” he cried shakily, “that you would not tell her…”



“We had better not talk about promises,” said Mme. Storey with a steady

look at him.



“Darius! … you already knew this!” gasped Fay.



He could make no answer.



Fay turned to Mme. Storey. “Rosika … how do you know? … how do you

know?” she faltered.



“She received a letter that evening which drew her out to the pavilion.

She was unarmed when she left the house.”



“Then it’s quite clear,” said Fay, laughing hysterically. “The letter

must have been from her lover. He pleaded with her for the last time,

and when she was obdurate he shot her in a fit of desperation.”



“She was shot within three minutes of leaving the house,” said Mme.

Storey relentlessly. “Not much time for pleading. No! Somebody was

waiting for her in the pavilion with the gun ready.”



“But it must have been her lover!” wailed Fay.



Mme. Storey sat looking straight ahead of her, pale and immovable as

Nemesis. “It was somebody who is amongst us here,” she said.



You could hear the tight breasts around the table labouring for breath.

Each of us glanced with furtive dread at our companions. Whittall

broke again.



“Well, who? … who? … who?” he cried wildly, “Out with it!”



“Somebody amongst us here?” quavered Mrs. Brunton in a high falsetto.

“I never heard of such a thing!”



The ageing woman with her touched-up cheeks and dyed hair looked like a

caricature of herself. Everybody around the table looked stricken,

clownish, scattered in the wits. I’m sure I was no exception. Only my

beautiful mistress was as composed as Death.



“Fay,” she asked, “what were you doing on the evening of September

eleventh?”



I turned absolutely sick at heart. Mrs. Brunton and Whittall loudly

and angrily protested. The exquisite girl shrank away from Mme.

Storey, and went as pale as paper. Apart from the noisy voices of the

others I heard her dismayed whisper.



“Rosika! … I? … I? … Oh, Rosika, surely you can’t think that

I…”



“This is too much!” cried Mrs. Brunton, jumping up. “Must we submit to

be insulted here in our own rooms? Mr. Whittall, are you going to

permit this to go any further?”



“No!” cried Whittall, banging the table. “This woman is taking too

much on herself! She has no right to catechise us!”



Mme. Storey looked at me. “Bella,” she said, “admit the gentleman who

is waiting outside.”



As well as my legs would serve me I got to the door. Inspector Rumsey

was in the corridor. He came in.



With a wave of the hand, Mme. Storey introduced him to the gaping

company. “Inspector Rumsey and I are acting in concert in this

matter,” she said. “I suppose you will allow that he has a right to

ask questions.”



Rumsey quietly sat down in a chair away from the table.



“Now, Fay,” said Mme. Storey.



The girl raised her gentle eyes in an imploring and reproachful glance

upon her friend. “Oh, Rosika, how can you?” she murmured.



Mme. Storey’s face was like a mask. “I must do my duty as I see it.

Answer my question, please.”



Fay put a hand over her eyes. “That was the night of the first showing

of ‘Ashes of Roses’,” she murmured. “I did not go. I was not well. I

went to bed when Mamma went out.”



“But you got up again,” said Mme. Storey remorselessly. “I have a

report from the garage where you keep your cars, stating that you

telephoned for the convertible at 8.10 that night, and that it was

handed over to you at the door of your hotel five minutes later. It

was returned to the garage at half-past ten.”



“Oh, yes,” murmured Fay feebly. “I forgot.”



Mrs. Brunton and Whittall looked dumfounded. As for me, I simply could

not believe my ears.



“Where did you go?” asked Mme. Storey.



“I … I was just driving around for the air. I don’t remember

exactly.”



“According to the custom of the garage,” Mme. Storey continued, “a

reading of the speedometer was taken when the car went out, and again

when it was returned. The elapsed mileage was twenty miles. That is

just the distance to Riverdale and back.”



Fay sat up suddenly. “I never went to Riverdale!” she cried sharply.



“Then where did you go?” persisted Mme. Storey.



A deep blush overspread Fay’s face and neck. “Well, if you must know,”

she said a little defiantly, “I picked up Frank Esher in front of his

house and took him for a drive.”



Again Mrs. Brunton and Whittall looked at her open-mouthed.



The Inspector spoke up cheerfully. Like everybody else, he wished to

be on Fay’s side. “That will be easy to verify,” he said, taking out

his notebook.



“Unfortunately,” said Mme. Storey coldly, “Mr. Esher has disappeared.”



“Well, anyhow,” cried Whittall, “you can’t convict her of a crime

simply because she chanced to take a drive that night. It’s

ridiculous!”



“Ridiculous!” echoed Mrs. Brunton.



“I have not yet done,” said Mme. Storey. “Inspector, will you please

state what you learned respecting the purchase of the guns.”



Rumsey consulted the notebook. “On May 24th Mr. Darius Whittall

purchased two Matson 32 calibre automatics from Lorber and Staley’s.

He has an account there. Those were the only pistols of that design he

ever purchased from them. One was numbered 13417, the other 13418.”



Mme. Storey turned to Whittall. “Are you willing to concede that you

gave one of these pistols to your wife, and one to Fay?” she asked.



“I refuse to answer without advice of counsel,” he muttered.



“It doesn’t matter,” said Mme. Storey, undisturbed; “for we already

know from other sources that you gave one to your wife and one to Fay,

making the same remark to each…. Fay, where is yours?”



“In the bottom drawer of my bureau,” came the prompt reply.



“Will you fetch it, please?”



Fay called for Katy. The girl immediately appeared in the doorway,

looking white and scared. Evidently she had overheard at least part of

what had occurred.



“Bring me the gun from the bottom drawer of my bureau.”



The strangeness of this request completed the demoralisation of the

maid. She stood there like one incapable of motion. Fay herself

sprang up and ran into the next room. From there we heard her cry:



“It’s gone!”



Then her excited questioning of the maid. Katy swore that she had

neither touched nor even seen the gun. She had not yet reached that

drawer when her packing was interrupted, she said. The girl got the

idea, somehow, that her own honesty was in question. She had no idea

that her words were convicting her mistress. Fay finally came back to

her seat with a wandering and vacant air. She kept repeating: “I can’t

imagine…! I can’t imagine…!” The Inspector looked very grave.



Mme. Storey remorselessly resumed: “I recovered Mrs. Whittall’s pistol

this morning. It is in my possession, properly marked for

identification. The number of it is 13417. The pistol found in Mrs.

Whittall’s hand, that is to say the one from which the fatal shot was

fired, was subsequently given by Mr. Whittall to the Captain of the

precinct. I obtained it from the Captain this afternoon. The number

is 13418. Here it is.”



She produced the weapon from a little bag that she carried on her arm.

She handed the sinister black object to Rumsey, who read off the

number, 13418, and handed it back to her.



At first I couldn’t take it in. Neither could Fay. Her wandering

eyes, like a child’s, searched from one face to another for the

explanation. Mrs. Brunton and Whittall were sitting there, literally

frozen with horror. Rumsey had got up. It was from his grave and

compassionate gaze at Fay that I realised she stood convicted in his

eyes. What a dreadful moment!



Fay burst into tears, and dropped her head between her outstretched

arms on the table. “Oh, how can you! … How can you!” she sobbed.



At that something seemed to break inside of me. I forgot everything;

my duty to my mistress; everything. I was only conscious of the

weeping girl whom I loved. I got to my feet. “It’s a shame! It’s a

shame!” I heard myself crying. “She didn’t do it! She couldn’t have

done it! Look at her! What does your evidence amount to beside that!”



Fay reached for me like a frightened child, and I took her in my arms.



Mme. Storey never looked at me. No muscle of her face changed. “The

rest lies with you, Inspector,” she said quietly.



Rumsey’s distress comes back to me now. Then I was oblivious to

everything. “It will be all right…. It will be all right,” he kept

saying. “I’m sure that a further investigation will clear everything

up. But I’m sorry… I would not be justified … I must ask the

young lady…”



Mrs. Brunton jumped up with a shriek. “Is he going to arrest her!”



“Don’t call it an arrest, ma’am; a brief detention….”



“Oh, no! no! no!” Mrs. Brunton flung herself down beside the girl, and

wrapped her arms around Fay’s knees. “It’s all lies!” she cried. “All

lies! … It was I who shot Mrs. Whittall!”



I have scarcely the heart to describe the painful scene that followed.

Fay was broken-hearted, of course, but the shock to her proved to be

less than Mme. Storey had feared. It turned out that for weeks past,

Fay had divined that her companion was carrying a load of guilt on her

breast, though, of course, the girl had no idea of its nature. She was

already secretly estranged from the woman who passed as her mother.



Nevertheless she loyally wished to accompany her to Police

Headquarters, but the rest of us dissuaded her from it. Kreuger went

with Mrs. Brunton, but Darius Whittall remained with us. He had to

learn his fate. Before Mme. Storey and I, he said with a despairing

hangdog air:



“It was not my fault, Fay.”



She looked at him with gravely accusing eyes. There was nothing

childish about her then. “No,” she said quietly, “but you were not

sorry when it happened.” Unfastening the pearls from about her neck,

and drawing off the ring, she handed them over.



He knew it was final. He went away, a broken man. When we three were

alone together, Fay wept again. Mme. Storey looked as uncomfortable as

a boy in the presence of emotion. From the little bag she took the gun

she had produced at the table.



“Here is your gun, Fay,” she said. “I took it out of your drawer when

I went into your room to change my hat.”



We opened our eyes at that. Nothing so simple had ever occurred to us.



“I hope you can forgive me for those terrible moments I gave you,” Mme.

Storey went on. “I couldn’t help myself. That woman covered her

tracks so well, there was nothing for it but to force a confession.”



Fay forgave her freely.



“I owe Bella an apology, too,” Mme. Storey said with a rueful glance in

my direction. “For keeping her in the dark. You see, I needed that

outburst from Bella to give the scene verisimilitude.”



This made me feel rather foolish, but of course I was not troubling

about a little thing like that then.



“I am alone now,” sobbed Fay.



Mme. Storey murmured the name of Frank Esher. “I suggest that that

woman may have fomented the trouble between you and him because he was

poor,” she said.



“She was always against him,” Fay agreed.



“Why don’t you write to him now?”



“I don’t know where he is!” mourned Fay.



“In care of the British-American Development Company, Georgetown,

British Guiana,” said Mme. Storey dryly.



“Oh, Rosika!” This with her face hidden on my shoulder.



“In fact, why not cable?” said Mme. Storey.



“Oh, Rosika. You do it for me.”



“Well, as a matter of fact, I have cabled already,” said Mme. Storey.



I cannot do better than conclude by appending Mrs. Brunton’s subsequent

confession to the police—her real name was Elinor Tinsley. All that

was so baffling in the case therein becomes clear.



“I am aware that anything I say may be used against me. I want to tell

the truth now. I’m glad it’s out. It was too great a load to bear. I

did it for her; for the one whom I called my daughter. I loved her as

much as I could my own child. In spite of all I said, I knew that she

had not sufficient talent to maintain her as a star. So many new faces

coming to the front each year. I wanted to secure her future. I

wanted her to have the best.



“When Mr. Whittall began to pay her attention I saw our chance in him.

But his wife was in the way. He was anxious for a divorce, but she

wouldn’t. I couldn’t forget about it. I brooded and brooded on it. I

felt I had to act quickly, because Mr. Whittall had a reputation for

fickleness. I was afraid he’d take a fancy to somebody else. Once he

told me the name of a man he thought his wife was secretly in love

with—I won’t mention it here; and that gave me my first idea.



“I got a sample of Mrs. Whittall’s handwriting by writing her a begging

letter under an assumed name, and I practised and practised until I was

able to imitate it. Then I sent a letter as coming from her to this

man I told you about, hoping that it would result in throwing them into

each other’s arms, and that there would have to be a divorce then. But

weeks passed and nothing happened. I was no further forward than

before.



“Then one day Mrs. Whittall asked my daughter and me to have lunch and

tea with her at her place. And when we were having tea out in the

pavilion, the whole thing seemed to unroll itself before me. I thought

of the first showing of ‘Ashes of Roses’ that was coming soon, and what

a good chance that would give me, and I made up my mind I would try

again that night. I knew I wouldn’t have any trouble with Fay, because

she doesn’t care for pictures, and I could easily persuade her not to

go.



“I got a sample of that man’s handwriting on another pretext, and I

practised until I was able to write a letter that looked like his. I

bought the gun at –- (a big department store) for cash, so the sale

couldn’t be traced. I knew the kind of gun Mr. Whittall had bought for

his wife, and I got the same. I wanted to make it look like suicide.

Then I wrote a letter to Mrs. Whittall in this man’s name, asking her

to come to me, for God’s sake, in the little pavilion at nine-thirty

that night. Of course, she ought to have known, after the other

letter, but I figured if she was in love she wouldn’t stop to think.

If she hadn’t come, I’d just have tried something else. I sent the

letter the same afternoon with a special delivery stamp on it. Through

a messenger it could have been traced.



“My daughter and I had special invitations to see the private showing

of ‘Ashes of Roses’ that night. Without seeming to, I persuaded Fay to

stay at home. I took a taxicab to the theatre, arriving there about

eight-fifteen. I had the gun in my reticule. I greeted many friends

in the lobby, so I could prove an alibi if anything went wrong. I took

a seat on the side aisle, beside one of the exits, and when the lights

were put out, it was easy for me to slip out through that exit without

anybody seeing.



“I took the West Side subway to the end of the line, and walked up the

hill to Riverdale, and on down the other side towards the river. I had

fixed in my mind the road that ran alongside the wall of the Whittall

property. I climbed the wall, and went up the hill to the pavilion. I

was in plenty of time. I took the gun in my hand and waited, hidden

behind a pillar. I kept my gloves on so I wouldn’t leave any

fingerprint on the gun. When Mrs. Whittall came running in, I pressed

the gun to her temple and pulled the trigger. She fell back outside.

She never made a sound. I closed her hand over the gun as well as I

could, and went back the way I came.



“I had found out from Mr. Kreuger that he and Mr. Whittall would be

dining at the Hotel Norfolk that night. I wanted to warn Mr. Whittall

to secure his wife’s gun. I knew he’d be glad enough to hush up any

scandal. But I was afraid to stop at Van Cortlandt for fear somebody

might remember seeing me in a telephone booth. So I rode on the subway

down to 145th Street, and telephoned from a pay station there. Then I

rode on the subway down to Times Square, and took a taxi to the hotel.

That is all I have to say.”

======================================================================

Murder in Masquerade





I


There were eight of us seated around the table, all in costume and

masked. Of the eight the only one I knew was my employer, Mme. Storey.

She had come as Queen Anne Boleyn in a superb black velvet costume with

hoops and stays.



The dancers in the hall outside had unmasked long ago, but when

midnight was approaching Mme. Storey had suggested to our little party

that we would have more fun if we kept our masks on. Where all were

unknown to each other there could be no inhibitions, she said; and the

proposal was enthusiastically carried. The champagne and the fun

flowed fast and furiously, but I couldn’t help feeling from a certain

tenseness in the atmosphere that there was more going on than appeared

on the surface.



In the midst of it all Mme. Storey’s partner, a stalwart, attractive

young man in the gay costume of Harlequin, suddenly leaned back in his

chair and lifted his mask—“to get air,” he said.



I had a glimpse of a handsome, reckless, slightly drunken face, and

then the mask snapped back. But the damage was done. It was

immediately apparent to me that several people around the table had

recognised our Harlequin—particularly the two women who faced us. I

knew it by the rigid, snake-like poise of their heads. They stopped

laughing and I could imagine the cold glare of jealous rage behind

their masks.



The woman to the left who was of mature figure was dressed as a harem

favourite, and somebody had christened her Zuleika. In addition to the

mask her face was further hidden by a veil covering the lower part of

her face. The one on the other side was a slender girl whose trim

figure was cunningly set off by a sailor suit. She had earned the name

of Jackie, of course.



The man between them was all rigged out in the fantastic costume of a

Turkish Janizary or something, enormously tall hat, voluminous breeches

and a curved sword called a yataghan. We had christened him Abdullah.



It soon became evident from Abdullah’s sneering remarks that he also

knew Harlequin, and hated him. Harlequin himself appeared to be too

much uplifted by wine to realise the damage he had done in lifting his

mask. Or else he didn’t care. It was the annual ball of the Butlers’

Association in Webster Hall over on the East Side. Mme. Storey had

heard of the affair through Crider, one of her operatives who was at

that time serving as butler to the Creighton Woodleys, in an effort to

clear up the robbery of Mrs. Woodley’s jewels. The Woodleys’ former

butler, a man called George Danforth, had been given a clean bill of

health by the police. Nevertheless, it was believed to have been an

inside job, and our man Crider had been put in in Danforth’s place to

see what he could learn. Danforth presumably had got another job.



I knew nothing of the details of this Woodley jewel robbery, being all

tied up at the time in the tangle of the Lear Caybourn case. In our

office we were so swamped with criminal investigations that my employer

had to delegate part of her work to me. Mme. Storey always says she

would like to get out of the criminal part of our business; pure

psychology is her line. However, she admits there is money in crime;

also publicity. And publicity leads to more money.



I remember when our dresses for the ball were sent home I protested at

their richness and elegance. “They will make us too conspicuous at a

servants’ ball,” I said.



“We wish to be conspicuous,” she answered, and even then I did not

catch on. “This ball is going to surprise you, Bella,” she added with

a twinkle in her eye.



It did. But incidentally I may say that it surprised her too.



I was dressed as an Italian page of the Renaissance period; brown silk

tights, velvet doublet and a cunning little cap over one ear. I

blushed when I put on the tights, but I felt all right as soon as I got

behind a mask. I really have very nice legs. Mme. Storey says I don’t

know how to ballyhoo my own charms. She christened me Lorenzo, and I

answered to it all evening.



Mme. Storey as Queen Anne Boleyn in her gleaming black dress without

any note of colour was easily the finest woman present. Harlequin told

her so instantly, and thereafter he never left her side. I did not

lack for partners myself, but I confess I was a little scared amongst

all those strangers, and I took care to keep my chief within sight.



It is curious to see how, even at a masked ball, the different cliques

will form. Gradually, as the best-dressed and most elegant persons

present, our little company of eight came together.



It was Mr. Punch who asked us to supper in a private room upstairs. He

was the best turned-out of any of the men. A small man with a

considerable paunch, the part suited him. Everybody knows the costume,

doublet and knee breeches of alternate stripes of green and red velvet;

white silk stockings and shoes with big silver buckles; grotesque hump

and tall cap with the point turned down in front. A tiny gold bell

hung from the point of his cap and tinkled every time he turned his

head.



I got my second great surprise when I saw the supper room to which we

were led, the banks of roses on the table, the magnums of champagne

cooling in buckets of ice. At a butlers’ supper! Of course Mr. Punch

might have lifted the champagne from his master’s cellar, but he must

have paid for the roses. One would think it had taken a whole month’s

wages.



The eighth member of the party was a big man dressed in the flaming

costume of Mephistopheles complete with horns and forked tail. He had

a mask with headpiece that covered him entirely. All you could see of

the man himself were his rolling eyes.



The mask was fixed in a devilish leer, though the voice that came out

of it was mild enough. Such are the inconsistencies of a masquerade

party. This man spoke with an English accent, and he was the only one

who resembled one’s idea of a butler.



“They are not butlers tonight,” Mme. Storey whispered to me; “they are

only men.”



Upon taking our places we discovered that the bank of roses which

filled the whole centre of the table was interspersed with dozens of

tiny coloured electric lights. As soon as we had finished eating

somebody suggested turning out the main lights of the room in order to

show up the table decorations. This was done, and the effect was weird

in the extreme. Imagine those little lights, red, green, purple,

amongst the roses, throwing up changing shadows on the grotesque,

masked faces around the table. Mr. Punch at the head and Mephisto at

the foot looked like figures out of a nightmare. But it was all good

fun.



Mephisto made a flowery speech to the effect that he had Henry the

Eighth safe in hell, where he was making him pay with interest for his

cruel treatment of the beautiful Anne Boleyn four hundred years ago.

He described his torments with comic effect. Mr. Punch, not to be

outdone, cut the little golden bell from his cap and begged the fair

Anne to accept it as a keepsake.



“Back up! Back up, Punch!” cried Harlequin. “What do you mean making

up to the ladies with that hump on your back?”



Mr. Punch wiggled his hump comically. “You don’t know the half of it,

my boy,” he retorted good-naturedly; “that ornament gives me

personality.”



A laugh went around the table. It was at this moment that Harlequin,

in a moment of forgetfulness, raised his mask, and I saw that we were

in for trouble.



There was a silence while the two women across the table slowly

stiffened. There was a great contrast in their appearance—the big

woman in the flowing draperies of a Turkish houri, and the slender

girl in the trim sailor suit; but Zuleika and Jackie were alike in

their feelings. They had just had wine enough to make them forget

concealment. A woman’s naked jealousy is not pretty. Their masks gave

nothing away, but I could fairly feel their ugly feelings coming across

the table in waves.



The handsome Harlequin was oblivious of it. He jumped up and raised

his glass. “Bottoms up! Bottoms up,” he cried recklessly. “The

party’s getting slow!”



Abdullah in his grotesque high-crowned hat leaned across the table with

a sneer—he was seated between the two women. “As usual, you’re

liberal with the wine when another man is buying,” he said.



It was evident that all three people across the table knew Harlequin

too well for their own peace of mind, though they seemed to be unknown

to each other.



Harlequin paid no attention, having already launched forth in a speech.

The men were always making speeches. What this one was about I

couldn’t tell you; a lot of windy, humorous nonsense. Abdullah sat

opposite, glowering and fingering his glass; muttering to himself.

Finally he said aloud:



“Oh, we’ve heard that before. Change your line! Change your line!”



Harlequin, feeling that he had the crowd with him, hooted with

laughter. “Better a monkey than a crab,” he retorted.



Abdullah sprang up from the table, trembling. “How about a

blackguard?” he snarled. “A foul, lying blackguard!”



Harlequin gave a leap and quicker than I could follow the blow, struck

him on the side of the head. Abdullah rocked drunkenly and the tall

hat rolled to the floor. He seemed not to know how to defend himself,

but just stood there taking Harlequin’s lightning blows. His one idea

was to keep his adversary from unmasking him; he pressed a hand over

his mask to keep it on.



The wildest confusion followed. To my astonishment the two women who

had seemed to be enraged at the gay Harlequin now turned on Abdullah,

and the unfortunate Janizary was badly knocked about before aid could

reach him. Following a blind instinct we all rushed to get into it,

either to join the m�l�e or to stop it, I can hardly say which. Only

Anne Boleyn stood coldly to one side.



It was an ugly scene; men punching and cursing; women screeching and

clawing. When the two women were pulled away from Abdullah, they

attacked each other. I have a vague impression that some of the

dancers ran in from the hall, and were hustled out again by Mephisto.

I know that a couple of waiters appeared and helped to stop the fight.



Suddenly it was over. Harlequin and Abdullah were separated and

pressed back. Harlequin was laughing. He had lost his mask for good

now. The handsome, masculine face showed with extraordinary vividness

amongst all the masked ones. I had never seen the man before that

night.



I heard little Jackie moaning softly: “George! George!”



Zuleika turned on her, snarling: “Shut up, you fool! What is he to

you?”



One of Abdullah’s cheeks was badly clawed, but he had succeeded in

hanging on to his mask.



And then simultaneously we all became aware of the ugly little

automatic lying in the middle of the clear space where they had just

been struggling. We gazed at it in horror. Nobody could tell how it

had got there.





II


“Whose is it?” asked Mr. Punch hoarsely.



There was no answer.



“It must be somebody’s,” he said, looking from face to face. “Is it

yours, Harlequin?”



“No,” was the careless answer. “I couldn’t hide a gun in this union

suit.”



It was obvious that he spoke the truth.



“Is it yours, Abdullah?”



“No,” was the sullen answer. I doubt if anybody believed him.



“Yours, Mephisto?”



“No.”



“For myself, I say it is not mine,” said Mr. Punch.



One by one the women denied ownership, and the gun continued to lie on

the floor. The waiters had retired and I don’t believe they had

noticed its presence in all the confusion.



Nobody would touch it for fear of incriminating himself. Finally Anne

Boleyn came forward and coolly picked it up. My employer was the only

one to whom it could not have belonged, because up to that moment she

had never been on that side of the table. She opened the magazine.



“Fully loaded,” she said.



Emptying the shells into her hand, she showed them to us all, and

dropped them in a pocket of her skirt. She then tossed the gun

carelessly on the table. It fell at the place to Mr. Punch’s right;

that is to say where Anne Boleyn had previously been sitting.



“The owner can claim it upon presentation of check,” she said lightly.



“You seem to be well accustomed to firearms, Anne,” remarked the plump

Zuleika acidly.



“Now come, now come, ladies and gentlemen,” said the suave Mr. Punch,

rubbing his hands together. “We were all having a lovely time. Do not

let this little unpleasantness spoil our evening. Let bygones be

bygones. Take your seats again, I beg. There are still two magnums to

be opened!”



Harlequin’s face lighted up at the mention of more wine. As to the

others, I cannot say what was passing in their minds, but nobody made

any move to leave. I was desperately anxious to get away from there.

In the general movement around the table I managed to whisper in Anne’s

ear:



“Oh, please, let’s get out of this. There is certain to be more

trouble.”



“We must see it through, Bella,” she murmured. “Crider is outside if

we need help.”



Harlequin stood behind Anne Boleyn’s place holding her chair ready for

her, but she coolly usurped Jackie’s seat on the other side of the

table at Mephisto’s right.



“Jackie, you run around and take my old place,” she said to the girl in

the sailor suit.



Jackie obeyed with alacrity, for it placed her next to Harlequin. His

face turned dark. “What’s the matter?” he growled to Anne Boleyn.



“Oh, I’ve had enough of you for the present,” she answered

good-naturedly. “I want to commune with the devil awhile.”



A laugh travelled around at Harlequin’s expense, and he went as flat as

a punctured tyre. It was a good stroke of policy on Mme. Storey’s

part. For a while it made things easier all around the table.

Unluckily the situation was more serious than either of us suspected.

Nothing we might have done could have averted what happened.



There was a very curious thing about that gun. When the waiter entered

to serve more wine, Mr. Punch whispered quickly: “Cover the gun.”



When I looked it was lying in front of Abdullah’s place. How it got

there I couldn’t tell you. Nobody saw it moved around the table.

Abdullah nervously dropped a napkin over it. As the champagne

circulated the gun was forgotten again. It seemed of no importance

because it was not loaded.



The waiter turned on the main lights of the room in order to see how to

serve the wine. When he retired he turned them out again, and we sat

once more in the agreeable van-coloured glow like that of a Christmas

tree. The door of the room was closed in order to keep out wandering

groups of masqueraders. Like most masked balls, this was a very

bibulous party.



Mr. Punch and Mephisto at head and foot of the table both worked hard

to make things go. The latter gave us a rendition of “Casey Jones,”

which I suppose was all the rage when he was young. But Abdullah and

Zuleika would not join in the chorus. Moreover, Harlequin soon tired

of the sailor lassie, and started talking to Anne Boleyn across the

table, whereupon Jackie became enraged again. That party was doomed

from the moment when Harlequin had first raised his mask.



However, Mr. Punch was not yet at the end of his resources. He stood

up at the head of the table, and rapped for order. He was a really

impressive figure because his make-up was so good. He had some sort of

a tin piece in his mouth that caused him to squeak and whistle in the

manner one associates with Mr. Punch, and he sawed his arms just like

the little figures operated by a hand from beneath. His false chin

waggled in the most realistic manner. It brought back all the Punch

and Judy shows of one’s childhood, and most of us were immediately

reduced to helpless laughter. Laughter puts you off your guard, and I

foolishly began to think that the trouble was over.



“Ladies and gentlemen,” he squeaked, “if you will be kind enough to

give me your attention for a few moments I will recite for you the

early history of the immortal Mr. Punch. Laying aside the tragedy

which overtook him, I am sure you will be glad to learn how Mr. Punch

fell in love. It seems that when he was a young man…”



At this moment the table lights went out, and the room was plunged into

total darkness. A loud “Oh!” of astonishment escaped from us all.

Immediately afterward there was a flash and a shot across the table

from me, followed by a heavy crash immediately on my left where

Harlequin sat.



I instinctively slid under the table, and most of the others did the

same. I brushed against Anne Boleyn under there, and smelled her

perfume. In my terror I flung my arms around her, but she roughly

thrust me away, and scrambled out of my reach. I was paralysed with

terror.



Then I heard the click of a switch and the electrolier went on,

flooding the room with light. Mr. Punch’s terrified voice gasped:



“For God’s sake, come out, all of you.”



The others crept out and I followed. What a frightful moment that was!

Harlequin was stretched out on the floor beside his overturned chair

with a bullet-hole in his forehead. One glance at him was enough. He

was stone dead.



Abdullah was sitting directly across the table staring, as if frozen,

at the place where Harlequin had been. He was the only one who had not

moved from his chair. He could not see the body where it had fallen.

Before him lay the gun. Mephisto snatched it up out of his reach. Mr.

Punch was by the door. It was he who had switched on the lights.



There was a significant silence in the hall outside. Evidently they

had heard the shot out there, and had stopped dead in their tracks.

Presently we heard running feet approaching. Mephisto darted to the

door and turned the key. People rattled the lock and pounded on the

panels.



“What’s the matter? What’s the matter?” they cried.



“‘S all right,” said Mephisto in a carefully schooled voice. “Just a

little friendly tussle. No harm done!”



“Open the door!” they commanded.



“You go to hell,” said Mephisto, pretending to be a little drunk.

“This is a private party. We don’t want no intruders. ‘S all right, I

tell you.”



The running feet retreated from the door again. We were too much

concerned with the horror inside the room to consider what they might

do out there.



Jackie cast herself down beside the body. “Oh, my darling! My

darling!” she moaned. “Speak to me!”



Her mask had fallen off, revealing a pale, pretty face convulsed with

grief. The girl was a stranger to me, but it was terribly affecting.



Zuleika ran around the table, and attempted to drag her away. “Who are

you?” she cried. “Let me get a look at you. Why, I never saw you

before! What right have you here?”



“Well, who are you?” retorted Jackie.



The older woman snatched her mask off and thrust her distorted face

close into the girl’s. “Look at me! Look at me!” she screeched. “I’m

his wife, that’s who I am!”



Jackie collapsed in helpless weeping.



The raging Zuleika turned on Abdullah then. “He did it!” she cried.

“He was right beside me. There’s the murderer! Unmask him!”



Abdullah, with a terrified gesture, clapped a hand over his mask.

Mephisto held the woman back from attacking him.



“I didn’t do it!” Abdullah kept crying hysterically. “I swear to God I

am innocent. I never fired a gun in my life!”



No one paid any attention to that. We had all seen the flash of the

pistol from the spot where he sat. Moreover, it was soon proved that

the table lights had not gone out by accident. The connection which

was plugged into the floor under the centre of the table, between

Abdullah and Harlequin, had been kicked out. Abdullah’s feet had been

the nearest to the plug, though any one of the four women might have

reached it with a foot. Mr. Punch at the head of the table and

Mephisto at the other end were too far away to have reached the plug.



All this happened in much less time than it takes me to write it. Anne

Boleyn was standing a little apart from the others, watching and

listening. I remembered that she had been the last to creep out from

under the table.



“How did the gun get loaded again?” she asked quietly. We looked at

one another blankly.



“Well, it was lying under the napkin all that time,” suggested Mr.

Punch slowly. “Abdullah might have slipped it out and reloaded while

we were singing.”



“It’s a lie!” cried Abdullah. “I never touched it! I have no shells

on me. Search me! Search me!”



“You wouldn’t need any more now,” Mr. Punch dryly remarked.



It is difficult for me to write about these moments calmly. Most of us

were in a state bordering on hysteria. Every second produced a new

sensation. As long as Jackie lay on the floor Abdullah could not see

her. When she arose he had his first glimpse of her unmasked.



“Oh, my God! Is it you?” he cried. “I might have known it.”



She paid no attention to him. She suddenly began to screech loudly:

“Let me out of here! Let me out of here!” Running to one of the

windows, she pulled back the porti�res and raised the sash. “There’s

the fire escape,” she screamed. “We can get out this way!”



Panic is catching. There was a general rush to follow her, but Mr.

Punch dragged her back from the window and stood blocking the way.

“Wait a minute! Wait a minute!” he cried, waving his hands, struggling

for calmness. “If we beat it we’d only incriminate ourselves. Get

back, you fools. You didn’t all do it. You’ve got nothing to fear.

Get back, I say. I’ve got a character to lose, if you haven’t. I’m

going to see this thing through. Get the police.”



We moved back from the window. His logic was unanswerable.



He seemed to have an impulse of mercy then. “Give the guilty man a

chance if you want,” he said with a glance at Abdullah. “If you’re

willing to let him go, it’s all right with me. Give him a chance for

his life. We can shout for the police when he starts down the ladder.”



Pandemonium arose at this.



“Yes!” cried the good-natured Mephisto.



“No,” screamed Zuleika, “let him go to the chair.”



Abdullah himself settled the matter by refusing to go. “I didn’t do

it,” he gabbled over and over. “I’m innocent—I swear it!”



“All right,” said Mr. Punch with a shrug. He closed the window.



The next thing I remember (you must keep in mind that this whole scene

lasted but about three minutes) was seeing Zuleika in a corner of the

room busy with a powder pad and a tiny mirror. Like most women no

longer young, as soon as she began to get a grip on herself her first

thought was to repair the damage to her make-up. It was absolutely a

pitiable sight to see her dabbing at her cheeks, because the woman’s

eyes were quite daft.



Suddenly Abdullah levelled a shaking forefinger at her and yelled:

“She’s left-handed!”



It was true; Zuleika had started to apply lipstick with her left hand.



“She’s left-handed! She’s left-handed!” yelled Abdullah.



“Well, what of it?” said Zuleika, staring, lipstick poised in air.



“She sat at my right,” cried Abdullah. “The shot was fired beside me.

She’s left-handed! She did it!”



“You lie!” cried Zuleika, showing her teeth. She had been a dark

beauty in her day. The rest of us simply gaped at this new turn.



“If she is his wife she had good cause to do it,” shrilled Abdullah.

“He was always running after other women. He took my girl from me!

Zuleika snatched up the pistol beside me. She did it! I will swear it

on the Book!”



“You lie!” repeated Zuleika. “You accuse me,” she cried suddenly; “how

about her?” She pointed to the tall figure of Anne Boleyn quietly

watching. “She was supposed to have emptied the magazine, wasn’t she?

She played a sleight-of-hand trick on all of you, that’s what! Why did

she change her seat at the table? So she could slip between me and

Abdullah when the lights went out and fire the shot! Take her mask

off, and let’s have a look at her!”



Mme. Storey smiled coldly at this tirade. She did not have to protect

her mask, because there was nobody present with nerve enough to touch

it. “I was the first one under the table,” she said quietly.



“Then how did the gun get loaded again?” Zuleika furiously demanded.

“You were the last one to touch it.”



“No,” said Anne Boleyn. “Because somehow it got moved from my old seat

next to Harlequin around to Abdullah’s.”



This forgotten fact was received in a dead silence.



“Let me have a look at that gun, please,” said Anne Boleyn to Mephisto,

who had been keeping it all this time.



“Don’t give it to her!” cried Zuleika.



“I’ve emptied it,” muttered Mephisto. “We don’t want any more

shooting.”



“You may keep it in your own hands,” said my employer coolly. “I only

want to look at the top of the barrel.”



She glanced at it as Mephisto held it, and then threw a bombshell among

us by saying: “This is not the gun I emptied and threw on the table.”



We stared at her. Mephisto instantly became panicky. “I have no other

gun on me,” he stammered.



“I didn’t say you had,” she said.



“How do you know it’s not the same gun?” cried Mr. Punch.



“Because I marked it when I unloaded it,” she answered. “I scratched

the barrel with my ring.”



“Another gun?” said Abdullah huskily. “What has become of the first

one?”



“That’s what we’d all like to know,” she said blandly. “Please stand

where you are, and I’ll try to dope it out.”



She did not have to speak twice, for all were arrested by the new and

peremptory tone in her voice. Stepping to the left of the head of the

table—that is to say, almost on the spot from whence the shot had been

fired—she went on thoughtfully: “The murderer had to make a quick

substitution of the loaded gun for the empty. He or she had to hide

the empty gun instantly—too dangerous to keep it on the person. He

would have to take the handiest place, trusting to retrieve it later.

Well, in any room there are only a limited number of hiding-places…”



The bright eyes through the slits in the mask travelled slowly around

the room and finally came to rest on a wine bucket standing on the

floor alongside the mantelpiece almost directly behind Abdullah’s

chair. The empty bottle was now sticking upside down in the ice and

water. She pushed up her sleeve a little way, and thrust her hand into

the water alongside the bottle. She drew it out, grasping a second gun

identical with the other.



Glancing at the barrel, she said casually: “There’s the scratch I made

behind the sight if any of you are interested in checking it up.”





III


The silence in the room was broken by Zuleika, who said with a sneer:

“Easy enough to find something when you know where you put it.”



The effect of this remark was only to focus suspicion on Zuleika

herself.



Abdullah muttered in a dazed way: “Two guns? Two guns? That lets me

out, don’t it?”



“Why should it?” demanded Zuleika. “You could hide a gross of guns in

that costume. I knocked against one of them when I sat down at the

table!”



Zuleika, it appeared, was ready to charge anybody with the murder.



“It’s a lie!” whined Abdullah.



Mme. Storey meanwhile was comparing her gun with the one Mephisto held.



“Same style and make,” she remarked. “No doubt they were carried by

the same person.”



We now heard a sound that threw everybody except Anne Boleyn into

another wild panic. It was the distant clanging of a gong in the

street. Instantly it was clear to us all that the people outside had

sent for the police. With a moan of terror, Jackie ran to the window

and threw it up. Mr. Punch made no move to stop her now. Out she

went, followed by Zuleika and Abdullah. When it came to the point,

Abdullah was not so anxious to face the police after all.



Myself, I was wild to follow. The dead man on the floor, the clanging

of that horrible gong, the thought of a fight with the police—it was

too much. My nerve failed me completely; but I waited for some sign

from my employer. Mr. Punch seemed to have lost his head, too. He

stood there biting his fingers in a horrible state of indecision.

Mephisto at the window shouted to him:



“Come on! Come on! You can’t face this out alone, you fool!”



Mr. Punch flung up his arms.



“All right,” he cried. “You are all witness that I didn’t want to go.

If you must go, I’ve got a car in the street. I’ll get you away.” He

turned to us and shouted: “Come on! They’re already in the building.”



Mme. Storey gave me a sign, and I hustled after Mephisto. I left her

and Mr. Punch contending which should go last. She got her way.



Out on the fire escape my head reeled. The pattering of those

descending feet on the iron steps below me made me shudder. It is a

sound which suggests fire and catastrophe.



The fire escape was on the rear of the building. Late as it was,

lights went up in the windows of the surrounding tenements, and bodies

hung half out.



“What’s the matter?” they cried back and forth to each other. “There

they go! Look at them!”



Mr. Punch stood by my side, stamping with impatience, while Anne Boleyn

was still only two-thirds down. “Come on! Come on!” he whispered

frantically.



“Coming!” she answered serenely.



She reached the ground just as the police started issuing from the

window above. Scrambling over the fence any way we could, we found

ourselves in a narrow passage which communicated with the next street.

The others were hovering in the mouth of the passage, uncertain where

to turn.



“This way!” whispered Mr. Punch, taking the lead.



We ran around the first corner into an alley. It was evident from the

sounds that a crowd was gathering in front of Webster Hall, but by the

grace of Providence the dark streets behind were empty. Mr. Punch

flung open the doors of a big limousine standing in the alley. He took

the wheel, and all the rest of us piled in pell-mell behind. When he

started the engine the sound brought men running from the front of the

hall to the other end of the alley, and the cry went up:



“There they go!”



The gong began to clang again.



As we crossed the street in the rear of the hall, the police were

coming out of the passageway by which we had escaped a minute earlier.

One of them shot at us. I saw the sparks where the bullets ricochetted

from the paving stones. But we were only in sight for a moment before

plunging into the second block of the alley, and they were all on foot.

There was no car at hand for them to seize.



The awful strain relaxed a little. What a strange crew we were in the

back of that limousine! All masked and watching each other out of the

corners of the eye-slits. The two women had resumed their masks,

though what they expected to gain by it now, it would have been hard to

say. And what a load we carried beside the seven people! Love,

hatred, guilt, suspicion, and fear, all squeezed up together as in an

affectionate embrace.



Something, I don’t know what, the suggestion of a new sound behind us

perhaps, prompted me to peep under the curtain over the rear window.

To my dismay I discovered that a light car filled with policemen had

crept up almost upon us, and was gaining rapidly. There was no

particular reason why I should have feared the police, but I was

terrified sick at the thought of more shooting.



“Oh, they’re coming!” I gasped.



Scarcely slackening speed at all, Mr. Punch turned the first corner to

the left. The heavy limousine reeled, teetered, slid, while we held

our breath and clutched at one another. But the four wheels came down

to earth again and we rushed through the side street in safety. Not so

the policemen. The light car skidded half across the street, leaped to

the sidewalk and crashed to a standstill against the house-fronts. I

only hope the poor fellows in it were not seriously hurt.



That was the end of pursuit. Mr. Punch turned a few more corners and

then, slackening speed, put on his mask and spoke to us through the

front window. He was less suave now.



“I can take you folks to a place where you’ll be absolutely safe until

you can get some proper clothes. But, naturally, I don’t want you to

know where it is. Pull down the blind over the front window. If I

catch anybody peeping I’ll put you out in the street just as you are.”



“That’s fair enough, Punch,” said Mephisto. “I won’t let anybody look

out.”



“I want to go home!” wailed Jackie like a child.



“Nothing doing, sister,” said Mephisto. “We’re all in this thing

together, and we got to stick together.”



So the front curtain was pulled down. It made little difference to me,

because I had no idea where we were anyhow. But I didn’t like Mr.

Punch’s proposition a little bit. It was too smooth to come from an

honest man, and Mephisto had fallen in with it a little too quickly. I

began to feel as if they were all crooks together. My anxiety was

chiefly on Mme. Storey’s account. A woman as famous as she is has to

be wary. She has many enemies. However, as she seemed to accede to

it, there was nothing I could do.



The whole business of trying to escape from the police seemed senseless

to me, and I could not imagine how Mme. Storey had come to fall for it.

You can’t trifle with murder. But presumably she knew what she was

doing. She always does.



The red-clad devil produced a packet of cigarettes and offered them

around. Only Anne Boleyn helped herself with a cry of thankfulness.

“That’s what I wanted!” She and Mephisto lighted up.



“Well, the worst appears to be over,” said Anne.



Over? Our troubles are just starting, I thought. But I saw that her

object was to recommend herself to these people as a good pal, and I

kept my mouth shut.



“Yes,” said Mephisto. “Mr. Punch seems to be a man of resource.”



“Have you any idea who he is?” she asked offhand.



“Not the slightest. But he must work for very fine people, judging by

the car.”



Mr. Punch drove for a considerable distance, but from the number of

turns we made, I judged he was merely trying to confuse our sense of

direction.



Finally we came to a standstill. Opening the front window a crack, Mr.

Punch said: “Sit still until I give the word.”



I was greatly tempted to peep around one of the blinds, but I noticed

that Mephisto was watching us narrowly. As it was, Jackie happened to

push one aside for a moment with a movement of her shoulder, and I got

a glimpse through the glass of the door. But all I saw was a dark and

deserted street with lamp-posts at intervals. It was a fashionable

quarter of the town, that was all I could tell.



I heard the squeaking of hinges, and afterward the car moved forward

for a few yards and stopped again. A gate closed behind us, and Mr.

Punch opened the car door. He had on his mask.



“Here we are,” he said.



We were in a private garage that had once been a stable. Another

handsome car lay alongside us, and through an open door we could see

the disused stalls beyond. Opening a small door, Mr. Punch led us all

out into a narrow courtyard with the stars overhead and the dark bulk

of a great mansion looming before us.



“You will be safe here,” he said. “My employers have gone south for

the winter.”



“How about your licence plates?” asked Abdullah anxiously. “The police

in the small car certainly got the number.”



“That won’t do them any good,” answered Mr. Punch with a laugh. “I

always fasten on false plates when I go out in the evening—just to be

on the safe side, you know.”



He unlocked a door into the rear of the house, and switched on lights

in the passage. I noticed that after we had all passed in, he locked

the door with a key, and dropped it into his pocket. This did not make

me feel any easier in my mind. In fact this so-called place of safety

scared me more than the supper room at the hall, where there had been

at least a crowd outside within call. The big house was as silent as

the grave.



We crossed a spacious old-fashioned kitchen, and mounted a flight of

stairs to the main floor. It was a really palatial mansion in the

older fashion, with an immense central hall running through it, and a

suite of three superb drawing-rooms on one side.



Everything had been dismantled in the absence of the family; hangings

and rugs removed and all furniture and pictures swathed in white

dustcloths. I noticed that all the windows on the first floor were

closely boarded up outside, and I suspected that there was no way out

except by the basement door to which Mr. Punch held the key.



He led us into the middle drawing-room and turned on a single bulb in a

wall bracket, which created just a little island of light amid the

crowding shadows. Queer-shaped objects peeped out of the corners; a

shrouded harp, a statue on a pedestal with a sheet thrown over it and

tied around its middle.



On either side opened a wide archway revealing a yawning pit of

blackness beyond. To my disordered imagination the ceiling looked a

hundred feet high. Our motley crew of masqueraders were like a little

company of ghosts stealing through some long-deserted hall.



Jackie glanced around her, and fell to shivering. “What did you bring

me here for?” she whimpered. “I want to go home.”



“I reckon you’re all wondering why I brought you here,” said Mr. Punch

suavely, “and you’re certainly entitled to know. This is it. It’s up

to us to discover amongst ourselves who shot George Danforth, so that

we all won’t have to suffer for the crime of one.”



George Danforth! The name rang familiarly in my mind. Then suddenly I

recollected that George Danforth was butler at the Creighton Woodleys’

when the big jewel robbery took place. So Mme. Storey’s caprice in

attending the butlers’ ball was something more than a caprice.





IV


We four women were shown into a dressing-room on the first floor of the

mansion to tidy up after our strenuous escape from Webster Hall.

Naturally Mme. Storey and I did not unmask in the presence of the

others. Those two, masked also, would not approach within a yard of

each other. Suspicion divided us all. My employer and I lingered in

the room until they had gone out, so that we could have a word or two

together. What a relief it was to raise our masks!



“Are you scared, Bella?” she asked, smiling.



“You know I am,” I answered tartly. “So there’s not much use in

denying it.”



There was a telephone in the room. She took down the receiver and

listened. “Dead,” she told me, hanging up again.



“Where do you suppose Crider is?” I asked nervously.



“Heaven knows!” she said. “I couldn’t foresee any such outcome as

this, and he has no instructions to cover it. The poor fellow will be

wild with anxiety…. We may solve our case through this accident,”

she went on thoughtfully, “but it’s risky—it’s risky!”



“Oh, what does a jewel robbery matter beside a murder?” I said,

shuddering.



“It’s all part of the same thing,” she said gravely.



I stared. “Do you know where we are?” I asked. She shook her head.

“I thought I knew most of the great houses in New York, but I’ve never

been in this one. There can’t be many of the type left. It’s on Fifth

Avenue, I should say, and probably it’s somewhere in the Sixties.

We’ll dope it out before we leave. Ha!” she cried, suddenly pointing

to the telephone instrument; “there’s our clue! The telephone number

is Buckingham 4-3773.”



“But you can’t go through the telephone book looking for that number!”

I objected.



“I won’t have to,” she said, tapping the directory. It had been

slipped inside an elaborately tooled leather cover which bore a big V

on the front. “Undoubtedly the family initial,” she said.



The Social Register lay beside the telephone book, and Mme. Storey

picked up the blue volume as affording a narrower field for her search.

Almost immediately she said: “I have it! A. A. Vandegrift. I was

nearly right. This house is on Madison instead of Fifth, and behind

St. Patrick’s Cathedral. We have often passed it!”



“What does Vandegrift do?” I asked.



“Do?” she said, smiling. “He’s a rich man of the third generation. He

sits in a window of the Union Club during the rare periods when he

favours New York with his visits and complains that times are not what

they were.”



“It’s too bad the Social Register doesn’t give the butlers’ names,

too,” I suggested.



“I know it now, without that!” she said. “Crider told me that the

president of the Butlers’ Association was the Vandegrifts’ butler. His

name is Alfred Denby. That identifies Mr. Punch. We are making

headway, my dear.”



“We’d better go out or they’ll be getting suspicious,” I said,

nervously.



“Just one moment! Mr. Punch, I take it, is preparing to hold a sort of

hearing. I want you to testify against Abdullah.”



“But I don’t know anything against him.”



“Then make something up. You’ll see why later. And don’t mind if I

get you all tangled up on cross-examination. I don’t want them to

suspect we’re working together.”



We adjusted our masks and left the room.



Mr. Punch had placed a little table for himself under the single light

in the middle drawing-room. He sat behind it on a sofa with six chairs

in linen covers ranged in a semi-circle before him. It was certainly

the most grotesque court ever held—if you could call it a court: Mr.

Punch and six mummers. But all the fun had gone out of this mummery.

The participants were distracted with grief, fear and suspicion.



He began in his suave and reasonable voice: “Abdullah—or whatever your

name may be—all the evidence seems to point to you as the one who shot

George Danforth. But we want to give you every chance. Have you got

anything to say for yourself?”



“I didn’t do it!” cried Abdullah. “I had no gun!”



“You knew who Danforth was?” Mr. Punch snapped.



“Sure, I knew,” he said sullenly. “Everybody connected with the

Association knew him.”



“Then you’re connected with the Association?”



No answer.



“You hated Danforth?”



“That’s no proof,” muttered Abdullah. “Plenty of others had it in for

him. He was a blackguard with women.”



Zuleika snatched off her mask, revealing her passionate gipsy face.

“That’s a lie!” she cried.



“A lie!” added Jackie with scarcely less violence.



Now that he was dead, I saw that both these women were getting ready to

sanctify him. Well, that’s the way women are!



“One minute, ladies,” said Mr. Punch smoothly. Turning to Abdullah, he

said: “If you didn’t shoot him, who did?”



“The gun was fired beside me,” said Abdullah. He leaned forward and

looked at Zuleika. “I believe she did it!”



“He’s lying, and he knows he’s lying!” cried Zuleika, jumping up.



“No doubt,” said Mr. Punch suavely, “but can you prove it?”



She glared around at us as if we were all her enemies. “Yes, I can,”

she said. “I’m a good shot with a pistol, and I don’t care who knows

it. But if it had been me I would have had to shoot on the level with

my eyes. It’s the only way I can shoot. And this gun was fired low

down. As if it was resting on the edge of the table!” The woman was

suddenly overcome by a hard dry sobbing. She covered her face with her

hands and ran into the dark room adjoining.



“Can anybody confirm that?” demanded Mr. Punch. “You, Jackie, you were

immediately across the table from the gun.”



“She’s right,” said Jackie, sniffing. “The shot came from low down.”



“What can you say, Lorenzo?” he said to me. “Did you see the flash?”



I shook my head. “Only the reflection. The flash was hidden behind

the bank of flowers. The pistol was fired from the edge of the table,

right there at Abdullah’s place.”



Mr. Punch rubbed his hands in satisfaction. “That seems to be

conclusive then. That lets Zuleika out. Either Abdullah fired the

shot, or it was somebody who came between him and Zuleika. That could

only have been you, Anne Boleyn.”



“Mercy! I didn’t shoot Mr. Danforth,” she said with pretended

nervousness. “Why, I scarcely knew him!”



He pounced on this admission. “Then you did know him?”



“I only met him once before tonight,” she said. “It was at a cabaret

in Harlem. It was then that he gave me a ticket to the ball tonight,

and asked me to meet him there.”



“Will you unmask, miss, so we can all see your face?” he asked suddenly.



My heart skipped a beat, for of course Mme. Storey’s photograph has

been published repeatedly. Everybody knows her face. But she was

equal to the situation.



“I won’t be the only one to show my face,” she said, drawing back.

“I’ll take off my mask if you will.”



He dropped the subject. “Can you prove to us,” he said, “that you

could not have fired the shot?”



“What do you expect me to say?” she answered with an innocent air. “If

those were my two guns I would not have produced the second one, would

I? I would not have shown you that they were of the same make.”



“Of course, of course,” said Mr. Punch suavely. “It stands to reason

you didn’t do it.”



He next turned his attention to me. “Who brought you to the ball?” he

asked.



Instantly I had to find a plausible answer. It came without thinking.

“Mr. Smith,” I said.



“What Mr. Smith? Where does he work?”



“I don’t know,” I said. “I only met him on his evenings off. He

brought me to the ball.”



“How was he dressed?”



“As Pierrot. There were so many of them I lost him. I didn’t care.”



“Will you unmask for us?”



Now my face is unknown to fame, and it occurred to me that I would

inspire these people with confidence if I obeyed. So I lifted my mask

for a moment and let it snap back. I saw the corners of my employer’s

mouth twitch. She approved of what I had done. And Mr. Punch was

satisfied.



“What can you tell us about this business?” he asked.



It was clear to me by this time that he was only interested in getting

evidence against Abdullah, and I tried to play up to him.



“Well, I could see that Abdullah was sore against Harlequin,” I said.

“He was watching him all the time.”



“We know that already,” said Mr. Punch. “What else?”



“Well, just before the lights went out I saw him lift the cloth and

look under the table.”



“Good!” cried Mr. Punch. “He wanted to see how to disconnect the

lights. Will you tell this to the police?”



I nodded.



“Aw, you’re all against me!” cried Abdullah despairingly, and my

conscience reproached me. But I was only following instructions.



Mr. Punch turned to Mephisto. “Can you add anything?” he asked. He

never asked Mephisto to unmask, and so I judged he already knew him.



“Well,” said Mephisto with an air of seeming reluctance, “when the two

of them were fighting I saw Abdullah pull the gun. He dropped it on

the floor when they were separated.”



“You lie!” cried Abdullah. “You’re swearing my life away! If you saw

this why didn’t you say so before?”



“I didn’t want to make trouble,” said Mephisto deprecatingly. “I

always want to avoid trouble. In the heat of passion any man is likely

to do something he regrets afterward. As long as the gun was unloaded

I thought it was all right. Never occurred to me you would be carrying

two guns.”



“I didn’t even have one gun!” cried Abdullah.



Nobody paid any attention to what he said.



“Now we’re beginning to clear this thing up,” said Mr. Punch in great

satisfaction. “We’d all be better off if you had taken my advice and

seen it through on the spot. Will you swear to what you have said

before the police, Mephisto?”



“If I must, I must,” said the big man, spreading out his hands.

“Though I don’t wish the poor fellow any harm.”



By this time Zuleika had returned to the room and seated herself as far

as possible away from Jackie.



“Mrs. Danforth,” said Mr. Punch, “will you swear that you knocked

against the gun in this man’s pocket when you seated yourself at the

table?”



“Sure!” she said with a poisonous glance at Abdullah.



By this time the concerted plan to railroad the unfortunate fellow,

whether innocent or guilty, was becoming almost more than I could stand

in silence. I glanced anxiously at my employer, wondering when she was

going to take action.



Mr. Punch was not yet through with him. “Jackie,” he said to the girl,

“you were directly across the table when the shot was fired. You ought

to be able to tell us more about it.”



Abdullah sprang up and approached the girl. “Kitty, for God’s sake,

don’t join in this!” he cried brokenly. “You know me, Kitty. You used

to be fond of me. Have you forgotten all that?”



“Don’t touch me!” she cried, shrinking from him. “You are not worthy

to tie his laces!”



“Sit down!” shouted Mr. Punch, pounding the table. The broken Abdullah

dropped in his seat. “Then you know who he is,” he continued to Jackie.



“Sure,” she said sullenly. “I knew him as soon as he knew me. It’s

Frank Harris!”



Leaping up again, Abdullah tore off his mask and cast it on the floor.

“Look your fill at me!” he cried recklessly. “Yes, I’m Frank Harris!

What have I done to any of you that you’re all trying to send me to the

chair?”



Again we had that dramatic shock when another of the masked faces was

suddenly revealed. Under stress of his feelings the man’s face was

scarcely human. But he looked like an ordinary, honest sort of fellow.

You couldn’t help but pity him.



“A member of the Executive Committee!” exclaimed Mr. Punch in a

scandalised voice. The air was full of hypocrisy.



Jackie had no mercy on the poor wretch. These delicate girls can be as

cruel as Satan when their feelings are aroused. “I’ll tell you

something more about him!” she cried stridently. “When he says he

never handled a gun he lies! For six months past every hour he could

get he’s been practising with a pistol in a gallery on Fourteenth

Street. He’s a dead shot!”



Mr. Punch smiled cruelly between the false nose and chin. “I guess

we’ve heard enough,” he said. “Let’s take him to the police.”





V


At last Mme. Storey spoke up—but she seemed to have no more mercy for

the snivelling Abdullah-Harris than the rest of them. “You’d better

make him come clean first,” she suggested. “If he’s going to deny

everything the police will hold us all.”



A general murmur of assent went around.



“I won’t confess!” shouted Harris. “You can all be damned! Take me to

the police! I’d sooner face them than a set of vultures like you!”



Mr. Punch tried in vain to browbeat the man into making a confession,

but Harris only cried and cursed and turned stubborn. Finally Anne

Boleyn said smoothly:



“Let me see what I can get out of him.”



With a shrug, Mr. Punch moved over on the little sofa, and she sat on

the other end, making two judges instead of one. She lit a cigarette

and deliberated between every question she asked, blowing the smoke in

the air.



“Harris, you’re taking the wrong line altogether,” she began smoothly.

“If Danforth was a blackguard, as you say, let that be your defence.

If you can prove it, no jury would convict you.”



Harris calmed down, and scowled at her suspiciously. He didn’t know

how to take this. On the other hand Mrs. Danforth was angered by it.



However, Anne Boleyn smiled at her as much as to say, “I’m only trying

to entrap the man,” and the other woman subsided.



“Harris,” said Anne Boleyn, “you knew George Danforth tonight even

before he raised his mask. I was watching you.”



“Well, what of it?” he grumbled.



“How did you know him?”



Harris twisted in his chair. “If you must know, Mr. Denby, our

president, told me Danforth was going to wear a Harlequin outfit. With

that lead I recognised him from his figure.”



Mr. Punch’s make-up hid his face well, but I could imagine that this

disclosure made him uneasy. His whole poise towards my employer

betrayed it.



“Was Mr. Denby aware that you were sore at Danforth?” asked Anne Boleyn.



“Sure,” said Harris. “I told him how he had taken my girl, and he said

he was a blackguard. Mr. Denby’s a good friend of mine. He wouldn’t

let you hound me like this if he was here.”



“If Danforth was a blackguard why wasn’t he fired from the Association?”



“President Denby didn’t want to do it,” said Harris. “He thought it

would make too much talk.”



“And what did Danforth say?”



“Danforth went around bragging that they couldn’t fire him out because

he had too much on Denby.”



“What did he mean by that?”



“I don’t know. I didn’t pay no attention. Danforth was a crook.”



“Where has Danforth been working since he left the Creighton Woodleys?”



“Hasn’t been working anywhere. Just swelling around. He said the

Association would have to support him as long as he lived.”



“But Mr. Danforth took me home in a high-powered car that time,” said

Anne Boleyn. “He wore diamonds. He gave suppers to the ladies. Was

the Association paying for all that?”



“I didn’t believe they were,” said Harris. “Danforth was a crook.”



“But don’t you know?”



“No,” said Harris sullenly. “That’s up to the treasurer, Mr. Ebbitt.”



“But you’re a member of the Executive Committee.”



“We left everything to Denby and Ebbitt. Those two are the strong men

of the Association. They have a powerful hold on the members.”



“What gave them such a powerful hold?” asked Anne Boleyn softly.



“Well, during their term of office they have added a hundred thousand

dollars to our benefit fund. And fifty thousand to the Women’s

Auxiliary. They are fine men.”



“Where did they get it all?”



“From investments. Mr. Ebbitt, the treasurer, takes the dues and

invests the money in Wall Street and cleans up. He then hands the

money to me for the benefit fund. I run that,” Harris said, with a

pitiful sort of pride.



“Has the treasurer ever made a report to the Association?”



“Nobody wants a report as long as the money’s coming in.”



“When did he last pay in something to the fund?”



“Six weeks ago. Ten thousand. But he took that back again.”



“Why?”



“Said he saw a chance to double it on the Street.”



“Six weeks ago? Wasn’t that just the time when Danforth came out with

his big car and his diamonds?”



“Well—yes,” muttered Harris dubiously.



I could well believe that this line of testimony was making Mr. Punch

sweat, but he couldn’t say anything without showing his hand. However,

Mephisto interfered.



“What’s all this got to do with Harris’s shooting Danforth?” he

protested. “You ain’t getting anywhere, miss.”



“I’m trying to prove that Danforth was an out-and-out scoundrel,” she

said sweetly. “If I can show Harris that he has a first-rate defence,

he’ll confess and we can all go home.”



Mephisto was obliged to make believe he was satisfied, but I doubted it.



“Danforth was a scoundrel all right,” muttered Harris.



“But I’ll never confess!”



Anne Boleyn took a new line. “Where did you get that costume?”



“What’s that got to do with it?” he answered sullenly. “I’ve nothing

to conceal. I hired it at Steele Bros., costumiers.”



“Who sent you to them?”



“President Denby. He told me he seen this Turkish costume there just

my size, and I went and got it.”



“How was President Denby masked tonight?”



“I don’t know. Nobody knew. He said he could have more fun if they

didn’t recognise him for the president.”



“And treasurer Ebbitt?”



“I don’t know that neither. He’s a serious-minded man. Maybe he

didn’t come to the ball.”



Mme. Storey then resumed her original line of questioning. “When did

President Denby and Danforth first quarrel?” she asked.



“Just about that time,” said Harris. “Six weeks ago.”



“This would be just after Danforth had been cleared by the police of

complicity in the Creighton Woodley robbery.”



“Yeah. Mr. Denby wasn’t on to him then. He wanted to show his

confidence in Danforth and he offered to put him in on the Executive

Committee. But Danforth refused, and there was trouble.”



“Did you overhear their quarrel?”



“Well, they were in the private office with the door closed and I was

outside,” said Harris. “I just heard a word or two.”



“What was it?”



“Well, I heard Danforth shout out: ‘When I gave you the layout I

thought it was only talk! You tricked me!’ I didn’t pay no attention.

I knew Danforth was crooked.”



“What else?”



“Later Danforth hollered: ‘I was an honest man until this happened!

You made a crook out of me!’ That’s a laugh, all right. Mr. Denby

making a crook out of that rat!”



“Did you tell Mr. Denby what you overheard?”



“No, I made out I didn’t hear nothing just to save trouble.”



“Did you hear anything else?”



“The last thing Danforth said was: ‘I got hold of the receipt you gave

Tony Yellow for the money. Never mind how. I got it!’ And with that

he came bursting out of the private office–-”



Mr. Punch could stand no more. He sprang up, trembling with rage.



“You lie!” he cried.



“Liar yourself,” retorted Harris. “If Mr. Denby was here, he’d bear me

out! He’s a good friend of mine.”



“This is Mr. Denby,” said Anne Boleyn. “Let him speak for himself.”



Now, Mr. Punch was a quick-witted man, and he realised if he delayed an

instant in taking up her challenge he would only come off worse in the

end. He snatched off his mask.



“Sure I’m Denby,” he cried to Harris. “And I was a good friend of

yours, Frank. But you can’t save yourself from this murder by a tissue

of lies!”



The false nose and chin still grotesquely obscured his real features,

but they all knew him now. A murmur of amazement went around. Poor

Harris gaped at him like a clown. The man’s instinct warned him he had

been tricked, but his wits were not sharp enough to work it out.



Mr. Punch then turned furiously on my employer. “Who is this woman

that’s so keen about our private affairs?” he cried. “Take off your

mask, miss, and let’s have a look at you!”



She coolly lifted it, and faced him out with a dry smile. Mr. Punch

went staggering back.



“Rosika Storey!” he gasped. “Oh, my God! The detective!”



For a moment there was complete silence in the room. Mme. Storey’s

beauty and her contemptuous assurance laid a spell on them. In her

superb black gown she looked the queen. They stared at her

open-mouthed. Nobody moved.



Then Mr. Punch began to recover himself. A dark flush spread

underneath his make-up. He smiled grimly.



“Do you realise what this means?” he said to the others. “This woman

is out to smash our organisation. She cares nothing about the murder.

She’s after our benefit funds. Well, you’re all members. Going to

stand for it?”



“No! No!” they cried. It was strange to see how they instantly drew

together when their money was threatened. Danforth’s wife and his

mistress forgot their jealousy; even Frank Harris, the poor fool they

were trying to railroad to the chair, joined in with them. He was one

of those morons who can conceive of nothing higher than a blind loyalty

to the organisation. Mephisto obviously was hand in glove with Mr.

Punch now as he had been throughout.



They all began to shout together: “She did it! She did it! She shot

Danforth. I saw her do it, I’ll swear to it!”



Harris put in: “She come between me and Zuleika and fired at him

crouching down. I felt her there. I smelled her perfume. I’ll swear

to it!”



It was like an infernal chorus.



“We’ll all swear to it! She can’t get off!”



Which shows how much dependence you can place on human testimony!



Mr. Punch, however, had more sense.



“Quiet, you fools!” he shouted with an angry gesture. “You couldn’t

touch her. She has too much prestige. She’s too clever for you.

She’d go on the stand and make monkeys of you all. Besides, there’s

this other strange woman. They’re in together. They would support

each other on the stand.”



Mephisto furiously shook his fist at us. “These spies shan’t wreck our

organisation!” he cried.



“Sure!” agreed Mr. Punch cunningly. “The money is rolling in without

the slightest risk to us, and we want to enjoy it! If we stick

together we five can make a little central finance committee.”



This appealed to their cupidity.



“What will we do with them?” cried Mephisto.



All faces were unmasked now except for Mephisto’s grinning headpiece.



“Well,” began Mr. Punch. He paused, and that hideous smile spread

between hooked nose and chin. “She’s a clever woman, but she and her

fellow spy are only mortal…. And this is a nice quiet house!”



The two women cried out a little. They were willing to swear our lives

away, but outright murder scared them. As for me, all the blood in my

veins turned to water. I moved closer to Mme. Storey. She was smiling

scornfully. The black pit of the front drawing-room yawned at our

backs.



“Leave this to me,” Mr. Punch said to the women. “I’ll take the

responsibility. All you’ve got to do is to stand by me afterward.

There’s a grand cellar under this house,” he went on, smiling. “And

the family won’t be back for three months.”



Mephisto drew the gun he had kept all this time and coolly reloaded it.



“Put it up!” said Mr. Punch sharply. “We’ll do this quietly.”



Mme. Storey affected to laugh with quiet amusement.



“Look in the back room,” she said.



All five heads turned as one. She touched my hand, and we melted

noiselessly into the darkness behind us.





VI


We had only one second’s respite, of course. They discovered they had

been tricked, and Mr. Punch yelled: “Watch the basement stairs! It’s

the only way out! Come on, Ebbitt!”



Mme. Storey seized my hand, and we headed diagonally across the front

drawing-room for the main hall. As we reached it, our pursuers came

tumbling out of the middle room. The grand stairway was immediately

before us, and we sprang up. There was no other place to go. Terror

lent wings to my heels. I never ran so fast in my life.



As Mr. Punch came through the lower hall, he paused to press some

switches, and the whole central well of the house became flooded with

light. Punch and Mephisto leaped up the stairs after us.



We opened the first door we came to, ran in, slammed it, and shot a

bolt. Almost immediately the two men flung themselves against the

other side. This was one of the principal bedrooms of the house.



Immediately it was only too apparent to us that the windows were

boarded up like those below, and we could neither escape that way nor

summon help. We had only run from one trap into another.



We heard the men run along the hall outside, and immediately guessed

there was a way into our room from the front. I was for trying to find

the communicating door, but she prevented me.



“Must get out of this,” she muttered.



She softly drew the bolt, and we stole out into the stair hall again.

Frank Harris and the two women were watching at the foot of the stairs.

All three of them were infected with the blood lust now.



The third floor of the house was all cut up into a maze of small rooms

and passages in which we lost ourselves hopelessly. In the dark it was

impossible to figure out the plan. We could no longer hear our

pursuers—crouching in wait at some strategic corner, we supposed. It

was agonising not to know.



“There must be back stairs,” whispered Mme. Storey. “Look for them.”



In slowly feeling our way along the wall of a passage, I leave you to

imagine my feelings when my groping fingers suddenly touched fingers

exploring from the other direction.



I screamed like a madwoman. Luckily the man was scarcely less startled

than I. Mme. Storey and I dashed away down the passage, collided with

the wall at the end, crossed some sort of open space, and hid ourselves

in another passage before we dared draw breath.



“We are in the front of the house now,” she whispered. “We must find

the back stairs.”



Finally the suspense became unsupportable. Having crept back to the

beginning of the passage, we peeped around the corner. There they

crouched waiting, Punch and the Devil, the latter still masked.



They sprang at us and we fled back through the passage. We were

quicker than they. There was a door around the corner, and we got it

closed and bolted behind us as they flung themselves against it. I

heard Punch roar with laughter.



“We’ve got them now!” he yelled.



We were in a small bedroom, evidently a servant’s room, with a window

opening on the air shaft. Through the skylight at the top of the shaft

we saw that day was breaking. I heard Punch say: “Drive your foot

through a panel of the door!”



A tiny room opening on a shaft and those fiends outside! Our position

seemed absolutely desperate and I’m afraid I began to cry. Mme.

Storey’s face was sternly composed.



The door held for a brief while against Mephisto’s furious blows, and

Mme. Storey still had a trick up her sleeve. There was the window of

another room cater-cornered across the air shaft, and while I steadied

her she leaned far out of our window and got it opened. We then with

considerable difficulty crossed over from sill to sill. I never could

have made it had not the Devil been at my heels.



The room we entered was evidently lived in, and I gasped with relief to

see that it had two unshuttered windows opening on the blessed outer

air! But first we had to barricade the way we had come. With immense

exertions we managed to shove a heavy wardrobe in front of the window

on the shaft. This offered a formidable obstacle to anybody on the

insecure perch of the window sill, and we did not believe they could

follow that way. There was still the door of the room, of course. We

discovered that it was locked, and no key in it.



When we had time to look about us we saw a man’s personal belongings

scattered about; clothes, shoes, knick-knacks on the dresser. On the

wall was a framed photograph of an Association picnic.



“Ah,” said Mme. Storey dryly. “Mr. Punch’s own room!”



There was a ball of string lying on the bureau that she pounced on with

the light of triumph in her eye. “If we get out alive we’ll hang him

with this!” she cried, and thrust the ball in the pocket of her skirt.



I could make nothing of this at the moment. A sudden thought had

caused my heart to sink like a stone.



“If it’s his room he has the key in his pocket!” I gasped.



Mme. Storey’s eyes flashed around the room, searching. She snatched up

a stick-pin from the bureau, stuck it diagonally in the lock, then

hammered it with a boot so that it crumpled up inside the lock and the

head broke off.



“He won’t get a key in there in a hurry,” she remarked.



By this time the two men had broken into the little room on the shaft.

They must have been astonished when they found it empty. But when they

saw the wardrobe backed up against the other window on the shaft they

knew where we had gone.



“They’re in my room!” yelled Mr. Punch. “Come on!”



A moment later he was trying to insert his key in the lock. Failing in

that, they kicked the panels. Fortunately those were stout doors.

“Wait a minute!” said Punch. “Fetch the fire axe from the head of the

stairs.”



Meanwhile Mme. Storey and I were busy shoving the bureau in front of

the door, and the bed against the bureau to give them plenty to chop

through. Then we ran to an outer window.



It was half day and the city lay in a curious stillness under the cool

sky. Madison Avenue ran under the window, and across the way we could

see the apse of St. Patrick’s between the priests’ residences flanking

it on either side. The street lights were still burning and the early

cats were coming out to sniff in the gutters. The only human in sight

was an honest policeman leaning against a fire box on the corner, idly

swinging his club on its thong. As I was about to yell, Mme. Storey

clapped a hand over my mouth.



“If we raise an alarm they’ll escape us!” she cried.



She picked up a hairbrush, and leaning out the window tapped it against

the wall of the house. It made only a little sound, but in the

stillness of early morning it was sufficient. The policeman looked up

and saw us. What a strange shock he must have received, seeing Anne

Boleyn and Lorenzo hanging out of the top window of an apparently

shut-up house at dawn! One can imagine the eyes fairly starting from

his head. Mme. Storey gave him the most dramatic pantomime of distress

and terror, wringing her hands and alternately pointing inside the

house and towards the fire box. All the time she was murmuring to me:



“That ought to fetch him! That ought to fetch him!”



I don’t know what he thought, but there was obviously only one thing

for him to do. He yanked open the door of the fire alarm box, and

pulled the hook inside. He then ran down the side street to try to get

in the building from the rear.



For a moment or two there was silence in the room. I was desperately

trying to figure how long it took firemen to reach a fire. The beating

of my heart almost suffocated me. The silence must have alarmed Mr.

Punch outside, for he vigorously rattled the door and called out:



“You, in there!”



Mme. Storey winked at me and answered in a trembling voice: “Oh, spare

us! Spare us!” I wondered how she could joke at such a moment.



Mephisto arrived with the axe and they tackled the door. It proved to

be a tough job, because the passage was too narrow to swing the axe

effectively.



Almost immediately I heard the distant clang of the engines, and then I

saw the wisdom of Mme. Storey’s ruse. The men with the axe were making

too much noise themselves to hear the engines. Even if they did hear

they wouldn’t connect it with us. After all, it’s a common enough

sound in the city. Mr. Punch had fairly to hew the door in pieces

before he could get sufficient leverage to push the furniture out of

the way.



Meanwhile Mme. Storey and I were hanging out of the windows. When the

fire trucks swept up below we stretched out our arms to the men just

like all the pictures of distressed females we had seen. They swung

the big hook and ladder truck around with marvellous skill, and started

the machinery going, and the great ladder raised up and extended itself

until it dropped with a light tap against our window sill. They had

judged it to a hair. Then the men came scrambling up like monkeys.



Firemen are such handsome, well-built fellows, and so modest!

Everybody loves the firemen, because they don’t interfere with us as

the police do—they only save our lives!



The firemen were in the act of scrambling over the sill at the precise

moment when our two enemies, having succeeded in shoving the bureau a

foot or two from the door, appeared from behind it. The surprise was

mutual. Seeing the grotesque figure of Mr. Punch, axe in hand, and

Mephisto, horns and tail, the firemen may well have thought they were

in a madhouse.



“What’s the matter here?” stammered the leader.



Mme. Storey, with a twinkle in her eye, said courteously: “I’m sorry,

chief, there’s no fire. But these gentlemen were bent on murdering us.”



Mr. Punch and Mephisto turned to run, but the firemen leaped on their

backs and quickly secured them. Such grand fellows! I disgraced

myself by going into hysterics when it was over.





VII


The next scene took place at Police Headquarters. Of course a general

alarm had been sent out for our party and the police had been combing

the town for us all night. So we were rushed direct to Headquarters.

I doubt if the building had ever witnessed a more bizarre scene than

the seven of us in fancy dress lined up before the lieutenant at the

desk. Ebbitt, the fat treasurer of the Butlers’ Association, now

carried Mephisto’s grinning headpiece under one arm, while his spiked

tail dragged forlornly on the ground. Ebbitt had just such a smooth

and flabby face as you might expect in the butler who deferentially

fills your glass.



At first we were all treated as malefactors alike. When Mme. Storey

explained who she was the lieutenant received it with an air of

incredulity that was far from polite. In fact he jeered. Whereupon

she insisted on having our friend Inspector Rumsey sent for. After he

got there all was clear sailing.



I cannot end my story better than by giving you my employer’s statement

to the police.



“In the course of my investigation of the Creighton Woodley jewel

robbery,” she said, “certain facts turned up which suggested to me that

there was a very profitable racket being worked by an inner ring of the

Butlers’ Association in connection with expert jewel thieves. But it

was difficult to secure evidence.



“The annual masked ball of the Butlers’ Association tonight gave me an

opportunity of mixing with these people in disguise, so I attended the

ball and took with me my secretary, Miss Brickley. I also had an

operative mixing with the dancers, but we became separated from him.



“As it drew on towards midnight my secretary and I were invited to join

a supper party in a private room given by Mr. Punch here. I accepted

because I suspected from his air of authority that he was an important

man in the Association. Later I discovered that he was none other than

Alfred Denby, the president, and the man I was most anxious to watch.

The gentleman in red, yonder, is Ebbitt, the treasurer of the

Association.



“Unfortunately I had no knowledge beforehand that there was trouble

within the Association itself, or I could have taken steps to prevent

the murder at the supper table. The murdered man, as you may know, is

George Danforth, who was butler to the Creighton Woodleys at the time

of the robbery, and, of course, a member of the Association. I am

prepared to offer proof of every statement I am going to make to you.

All this evidence turned up after the murder.



“Danforth was a handsome, pleasure-loving man, very popular among the

ladies. Technically he was an honest man, and they tricked him into

giving the layout of his master’s house, and the information that

enabled a successful robbery to be carried out. Danforth, you

remember, was called away on the night of the robbery, and had

therefore a perfect alibi.



“But he knew then, of course, that he had been tricked. Honesty is all

a matter of degree. If he had been absolutely honest he would have

taken his story to the police. But he saw a way of supporting himself

in luxurious idleness and he fell for it. They offered to admit

Danforth to the inner ring, but he refused, and he proceeded to

blackmail the Butlers’ Association out of large sums of money.



“The Creighton Woodley robbery was actually committed by Antonio

Pagliariello, more commonly known as Tony Yellow. He is no stranger to

you. Alfred Denby gave Tony a receipt for the money turned over to the

Butlers’ Association as their share of the loot, and in some manner

this receipt came into Danforth’s hands. Probably Tony double-crossed

the Association and gave the paper to Danforth. It would be like him.

This paper constituted Danforth’s hold over the Association. It will

undoubtedly be found among the dead man’s effects.” Mme. Storey

paused, with a slight smile at the police officials’ surprise.



“The inner ring,” she went on, “resolved to put Danforth out of the

way. They planned to use this man here, Frank Harris by name, as their

instrument, but when they were unable to fan Harris’s hatred of

Danforth up to the killing point, Denby, the president, made up his

mind to kill Danforth himself and fasten the murder on Harris. The

inner ring had nothing against Harris, who was a loyal member of the

organisation, though not a party to the crookedness of the inner ring.

Harris was a stupid sort of fellow, they figured, who would never see

through the plot.



“The supper party tonight was staged for the murder. Mr. Punch there,

or Denby, made sure of his men, Danforth, Harris, and Ebbitt—he had

previous knowledge of the costumes they were going to wear; but

apparently he picked up some of the women at random. So cunningly

thought out was his plan that he wished to have strangers present to

give disinterested testimony later. That is how my secretary and I

happened to be included in the dinner party.



“A quarrel between Harris and Danforth lent the whole thing realism.

At the proper moment, when Mr. Punch was on his feet making a speech,

the lights went out and the shot was fired. When the lights were

turned on again the smoking revolver lay in front of Harris.



“But Harris had not fired the shot, gentlemen. Mr. Punch had prepared

a simple and ingenious scheme for disconnecting the lights under the

table. He tied a string to the plug in such a manner, leaving two

ends, that when he pulled one end it disconnected the lights, and when

he pulled the other it loosened the string and he could gather it all

in his hand, thus removing the evidence. When the lights went out he

knelt on the floor between Mrs. Danforth and Harris, and fired. He

dropped the gun on the table in front of Harris, and a second later he

was turning on the switch by the door.



“In the confusion following upon the murder there was a general desire

to escape. Mr. Punch, confident in the cleverness of his plot, was

dead against it. He insisted on facing the thing out. But a few

minutes later, when I had shown up the trick of substituting the guns,

he became suspicious of me and encouraged a general flight from the

scene. I was afraid he would escape—at that moment I hadn’t yet

discovered his identity, or that he would destroy valuable evidence; I

had to act on the instant and so I made believe to run with them.



“He carried us to the house of his employers which has been shut up for

months, an ideal base of operations for Mr. Punch. When he discovered

who I was, he determined to put me out of the way. That’s the whole

story, gentlemen.



“Now, as to my evidence: When the shot was fired, like nearly everybody

else present, I slid under the table. I took the opportunity of doing

a little searching under there. By that time Mr. Punch had pulled away

the string, of course, but I found, driven into the bottom of the

table, the little staples by which he had led the two ends of the

string to his right hand and to his left. They are still there, mute

evidence of Mr. Punch’s crime.



“I knew then what had happened, but it would not have been sufficient

evidence to take into court, and I was obliged to search farther. When

he went to the window of the supper room to try to prevent the others

from leaving, I saw him drop something out, and later when we all left,

I found the length of string entangled in the fire escape. Here it is,

gentlemen.



“Still, a piece of string is only a piece of string, and I felt that I

had not enough yet. My third find clinched the whole matter. On the

bureau of Mr. Punch’s own room, I picked up this ball of string. The

same kind of string as the piece I just handed you. A brand new ball,

you see, shows no dust nor marks of handling. Only one piece has been

cut from it. String of this kind is made up into balls of one hundred

and fifty yards. You can verify that from the makers. If you unwind

this ball you will discover that it makes exactly one hundred and fifty

yards, when joined with the piece I first handed you. That’s all.”

======================================================================

The Death Notice





I


I disliked the man’s voice even before I took in the sense of what he

was saying; a slow voice that seemed to dwell with pleasure on its own

malice. He said over the wire:



“Is Madame Storey there?”



“Who is this speaking?”



He laughed sarcastically. “Oh, I haven’t the pleasure of her

acquaintance.”



“What do you want to speak to her about?”



“That I can only tell her.”



“Well, I’m sorry,” I said, “but I am instructed not to disturb her

unless I know it is for a good reason.”



“To whom am I speaking?” he asked.



“Miss Brickley, Madame Storey’s secretary.”



“I have heard of the admirable Miss Brickley,” he said with his

insulting laugh. “I feel quite safe in sending her my message by you.”



Then he paused, and I said: “Well?”



I could hear his breathing over the wire. He must have had his lips

almost directly against the transmitter. “I have a communication to

make in which Madame Storey is sure to take a keen professional

interest,” he drawled. “There is going to be a murder committed at

number — East 75th Street this morning.”



“What!” I gasped.



He laughed, well pleased with the effect of his words.



“Wait a minute,” I stammered. “I’ll connect you with Madame Storey.”



“Oh, you can tell her,” he said, and hung up, still laughing.



It gave me a nasty shock. My hand was trembling violently when I put

up the receiver. Common sense suggested that it was only a hoax, but

the ugly voice out of the unknown acted powerfully on my nerves.



Going into her office, I found her sitting at the big table writing a

personal letter. She had a cigarette between her lips and was holding

her head on one side in the familiar way to keep the smoke out of her

eyes. At sight of my face she removed the cigarette and smiled

provokingly. She is always amused by my agitations.



“Well, what is it now?” she asked.



I told her.



“Damn the telephone!” she said pleasantly. “It puts us at the mercy of

every lunatic in the five boroughs.”



“It’s certainly a hoax,” I said.



“Undoubtedly. Just the same, we dare not ignore it.”



“After all, it’s a matter for the police to attend to.”



“Quite,” she said, taking up her pen again. “Call up Rumsey and pass

the buck to him.”



While I was waiting for my call a sudden exclamation escaped from my

employer. “What number did you say?”



“— East 75th Street.”



“Good Lord! that’s Mrs. George P. Julian’s new house. I suppose I’ll

have to go there anyway.”



I groaned in sympathy, for I had had ample experience of that lady’s

foolishness in the past.



When I got Inspector Rumsey on the wire, I handed over the instrument,

and Mme. Storey told him what had happened. He evidently asked for

further particulars about Mrs. Julian, for she went on to say:



“She’s a widow with twenty million dollars, and she’s almost the

perfect fool. Need I say more? A sugar-bowl for every new fakir who

sets up shop. I’ve already got her out of several scrapes, and that’s

why, God help me! I am elected to be her friend. Her principal is tied

up in a trust fund, but she has over a million a year income, and

that’s the honey that attracts the bees.”



He asked her about her previous relations with Mrs. Julian.



“Well, she was one of Jacmer Touchon’s patients. She got me some

evidence against him without knowing that she was doing it, and I’m

really in her debt on that score. Before that I saved her from handing

over half a million to the notorious Walter Hanley. My first meeting

with her was at the time of the Miller Moore case. Moore had been

bleeding her for a couple of years. I succeeded in sending him to Sing

Sing, you may remember.”



When she had hung up, Mme. Storey said: “Rumsey is satisfied it’s a

hoax. He says as long as I feel obliged to go to Mrs. Julian’s house

he won’t bother to send anybody…. He says I can attend to it better

than any man,” she added, with a sidelong smile in my direction.



“Humph!” I said, “he can afford to be flattering when he’s getting your

services for nothing.”



We ‘phoned for a taxi and locked up the office. Though my employer

affected to treat the matter lightly, I noticed a certain gravity in

her expression, and on the way up I asked her if she thought it

possible that Mrs. Julian’s life was in danger.



She shrugged impatiently. “Sooner or later that woman is certain to

get into trouble. So prominent, so wealthy, so foolish! It’s a fatal

combination.”



“But if her money’s all tied up in a trust fund, wouldn’t it be like

killing the goose that laid the golden eggs?”



“So it would seem. But there is this to consider. She has a habit of

giving out largesse with a good size string attached to it. She gives

these crooks great sums of money in the guise of loans. There is no

record that any of it was ever paid back. But when she sours on her

dear friends, she is apt to demand her money, and there have been some

very ugly scenes. That might supply a motive.”



We drew up in front of one of the newer mansions that line the blocks

east of the Park. It was one of those houses that embody every known

luxury and extravagance—except the trifling matter of sunshine. The

few rooms which faced the narrow street got a certain amount of light,

but as the house (as well as all its neighbours) covered about ninety

per cent, of its lot, all the other rooms had to be content with

electric light bulbs. Why be rich, one might ask, if you can’t have

sunshine? There is no answer. The rooms were filled with art

treasures from every quarter of the globe, but you got no definite

impression except that of mere expensiveness.



To match everything else, Mrs. Julian had the most expensive of

butlers. His name was Bunbury, and he had been with her for years. He

was a very handsome man. He seemed to have raised butlering to heights

before undreamed of. He was like a celebrated actor playing the part

of butler on the stage.



When my employer asked for Mrs. Julian, Bunbury looked deeply

distressed. He knew that Mme. Storey was no ordinary caller to be

turned away. “Mrs. Julian was not expecting you,” he suggested.



“No,” said Mme. Storey blandly. “But that will be all right.” She

walked in.



“I’m sorry,” he stammered, following us, “but Mrs. Julian is very much

engaged. I have positive instructions not to disturb her.”



“I’m sorry too,” said Mme. Storey, “but I have to see her. It is a

matter of the greatest importance.”



“Madam, I cannot … I cannot…” he protested.



“What’s she doing?” asked my employer bluntly.



“She’s … er … she’s having a s�ance,” he replied, embarrassed.



Mme. Storey started up the sweeping staircase with me following her,

and the butler bringing up the rear, all but wringing his hands.

“Madam, I beg of you … I beg of you…”



“I will take the responsibility of disturbing her,” said Mme. Storey

serenely. “… If I insist on going in, you can’t very well stop me,

can you?” she added.



“It’s as much as my place is worth,” he whimpered.



“Very well, if you get fired I’ll find you another place. You’re an

excellent servant.”



He gave up.



The plan of the house was simple. On the first floor above the street

there was a superb central hall with a peristyle of tall marble

columns. The staircase swept on up behind the columns. In the front

was an immense salon; in the rear a dining-room. The doors of the

salon stood open and there was no s�ance going on in there. It could

hardly be in the dining-room, so we kept on up.



The next floor was devoted to Mrs. Julian’s personal suite; boudoir,

bedroom, dressing-rooms and so forth. All the doors giving on the hall

were closed. From behind a door in the front came the steady drone of

a single voice—a disquieting sound. Mme. Storey made unhesitatingly

for that door, and opened it. The butler had faded away.





II


The room was dark except for a patch of uncertain light towards the

left. I had an impression of several motionless figures sitting

around, and I saw a ghastly distorted face in the dim light. It seemed

to have no body. It made my blood run cold. I almost cried out,

though I guessed there was trickery in it.



The voice ceased when we opened the door. There was a silence, then

Mrs. Julian’s voice, sharp and angry, demanding:



“Who is it? How dare you come in here?”



“Sorry, Aline,” said Mme. Storey calmly. “I had to speak to you.”



Mrs. Julian did not instantly recognise the voice. She continued to

cry: “Get out! Get out!” The strange figure in the middle of the room

broke in sulkily: “It is useless. Everything is spoiled now. You had

better turn on the light.”



Mme. Storey pressed the switch which was beside the door, and the

lights flooded on. The room was Mrs. Julian’s boudoir, and it

presented a very odd scene. When I say the house had no character I

should except the boudoir. That had plenty of character—of the wrong

sort. A sea of baby-blue brocade with a foam of lace upon it. One

might have guessed at a glance that this room expressed the soul of an

elephantine blonde woman of fifty-odd.



To the left stood an elegant little lacquer table with a carved

teak-wood stand upon it supporting in turn a crystal globe. This was a

beautiful object, reflecting as it did all the lights in broken shining

particles. One can easily understand how a crystal globe has always

been an object of mystery. A foot or so above the globe hung a lamp

concealed within a black shade. It was the light from this falling on

the crystal which had created the eerie glow I had first seen.



Beside the table stood a theatrical figure, a short, plump man in a

frock-coat that was too tight for him. He had a chocolate-coloured

face and shifty black eyes. His lank black hair was plastered over his

temples in the very manner of an oily schemer. His shallow eyes rolled

viciously at us. Anybody but Mrs. Julian would have distrusted him at

sight.



Beyond the table in an overstuffed baby-blue armchair sat Mrs. Julian,

overstuffed herself, and enveloped in God knows how many yards of

lavender chiffon. Her face which is naturally red showed a bluish hue

under the powder. Perhaps that’s why she wore lavender. She was a

good-natured creature in her way, and I knew that my employer had a

kind of fondness for her.



Along the far side of the room sat three other persons, two men and a

woman, of whom I shall have more to say directly. All three had an

unwholesome look like things that wanted the sun.



Mrs. Julian’s puffy face presented a study when the lights went up.

Dark with anger under her make-up, nevertheless she knew she could not

afford to quarrel with Mme. Storey. She bit her lip and looked at the

floor.



“It is nothing,” she muttered; “only … at such a moment of emotional

tension it’s a shock to have it broken.”



My employer instantly took her cue from the scene.



“I know,” she said sympathetically. “But I had a strong premonition

that you needed me, Aline, and I hurried right here. You can’t stop to

question such feelings. I wouldn’t let the servant keep me out.”



This sort of talk was well calculated to impress Mrs. Julian. She

looked at Mme. Storey, surprised to hear it from her, and began to

melt. “Oh, Rosika! But I am all right, darling!”



“I’m so glad!” said Mme. Storey, taking her hand.



The East Indian, seeing the current turning against him, became sulkier

than before. He placed the crystal and its stand in the middle of a

brilliant silk handkerchief and began to tie up the ends in Oriental

fashion. “With your permission I will retire,” he said stiffly to Mrs.

Julian.



“Oh, please don’t go,” said Mme. Storey in seeming concern. “I am

so interested in everything pertaining to the psychic…. Introduce

me, Aline.”



“This is Professor Ram Lal,” said Mrs. Julian a little unwillingly.

Perhaps she suspected my employer of irony. “Madame Rosika Storey.”



All the persons in the room glanced at Mme. Storey with fear and

dislike. I began to feel there must be some foundation for the warning

we had received, and a nasty chill struck through me. Was it possible

that this scowling Oriental meditated an attack on Mrs. Julian, and one

of his rivals, getting wind of it, had telephoned us?



“Do go on with your demonstration, Professor,” said my employer

cajolingly. “All my life I have been fascinated by the mystery of the

crystal, and have been longing to meet somebody to elucidate it.”



“I am sorry,” he said with the pompous air that such people are bound

to assume, “but the precious filaments that bind us to the infinite are

too tenuous to be joined immediately when once they are snapped.”



Mme. Storey listened to him with pretended respect. “Then let us sit

and talk awhile,” she said, matching his tone. “Let us try to put

ourselves in tune with the infinite so that new filaments may be

woven.” Drawing a chair up beside Mrs. Julian, she produced her

cigarette case. I sat down behind them.



Mrs. Julian, finding her friend so unexpectedly sympathetic, sighed

with satisfaction, and took a cigarette. “Sit down, Ram Lal,” she said

carelessly.



He dared not go then, though I fancy he was still suspicious of Mme.

Storey. Declining a cigarette, he sat down on the other side of the

table with an air of forced patience.



“Do uncover the precious crystal,” begged Mme. Storey. “I love to lose

myself by gazing in its depths.”



He obeyed with an ill grace.



“How inexpressibly beautiful!” she murmured. “The clear transparent

sphere which seems to conceal nothing yet hides all! It is symbolic of

the whole cosmos!”



Mrs. Julian, now completely persuaded, leaned over and patted her hand.

“Oh, Rosika, it is so sweet to hear you talk like this! Of course

you’re the cleverest woman in the world, but sometimes I have felt that

… that … well, you know…”



“That I lacked soul?” murmured Mme. Storey reproachfully. “Oh, Aline,

how could you!”



There was good comedy in this, but I felt no inclination at the time to

smile. The East Indian’s ugly expression kept me on tenterhooks.



“I see that Madame Storey is one of us,” he murmured. “A true psychic!”



Mrs. Julian was quite carried away. The folds of lavender chiffon

undulated with emotion. “Oh, Rosika, you have no conception of what a

wonderful man he is!” she whispered. “In Ram Lal I have found a bridge

to the beyond! He reads both the past and the future. I know that

what he foretells of the future will come true because he is never

wrong about the past. As soon as he begins to read the sphere the

veils fall one by one!”



“Oh, my dear, how wonderful! And what does he say is in store for you?”



A shudder of ecstasy passed through Mrs. Julian’s vast bulk.

“Happiness!” she whispered; “a great happiness!”



Such a rigmarole! I had all I could do to keep from snorting out loud.

It made me mad that such a fool should have so much money to throw to

the dogs while intelligent people have to get along with the barest

necessities.



Ram Lal was not supposed to hear Mrs. Julian’s praises, but of course

he could guess what she was saying. He lowered his eyes in mock

modesty, but the smirk around his lips gave him away.



“And the wonder of it is,” Mrs. Julian went on, “this is only an

ordinary crystal, though it was the best to be bought in New York.”

She dropped her voice again. “Just wait until the great Julian crystal

is finished, my dear!”



“What’s that?” asked Mme. Storey.



“Ram Lal is having the biggest and most flawless crystal made that the

world has ever seen!” she whispered. “It’s a secret as yet between him

and me. It’s going to cost a hundred thousand dollars! Ah! just think

what that will reveal!”



I wondered if she had given him the money yet. It seemed to me the

whole situation depended on that.



“And I mean to build a perfect temple to house the perfect crystal!”

she whispered ecstatically. “So that all men may be permitted to share

in universal knowledge. That shall be my contribution to my age!”



“But I thought it was against the law,” suggested Mme. Storey dryly.

“Crystal-gazing, I mean.”



“Only if you take money for it,” said Mrs. Julian a little sharply.

Evidently this unpleasant feature had been forced on her attention

before. “I shall endow the temple, of course, so that knowledge may be

free to all!”



Mme. Storey, while she occupied herself with the East Indian, did not

overlook the other persons in the room. “Introduce me to the rest of

your friends, Aline,” she said pleasantly.



Mrs. Julian threw them an inattentive glance. Clearly their noses were

out of joint for the time being. “Dr. Cushack, Mrs. Bracker, Mr.

Liptrott,” she said carelessly.



My employer arose and shook hands with each of them affably. The

doctor was a small man with an inferiority complex; looked very fierce,

squared his shoulders and talked in a deep bass voice. He had a small

waxed moustache and used a slight foreign accent. That was to convey

the idea that he had been educated abroad, you understand. He had the

cheek to kiss my employer’s hand in the Continental manner.



“I see that Madame Storey has a great sense of humour,” he said, with a

glance of contempt in Ram Lal’s direction.



She made believe not to get it. “Oh, I hope so,” she said with a

silly-sounding laugh, and passed on to the next one.



Mrs. Bracker was one of these skinny little women who have reduced to

within an inch of their lives. All the make-up in the world could not

hide the gaunt lines of under-nourishment and the haggard eyes. She

was, God save her! a beauty-culturist. She took Mme. Storey’s hand in

both of hers.



“It is an honour to meet the great Madame Storey,” she simpered, while

her eyes glittered with dislike. Well, naturally a beauty culturist

wouldn’t have much use for the real thing.



The third was an old man dressed in a respectable black suit. He

talked a little like a down-Easter. He was like any other old man,

except that his eyes had a crazy expression. As Mme. Storey approached

him he fumbled with the straps of a square leather case, and drew from

it a weird-looking box with various cords and attachments hanging from

it.



“I am the discoverer of the invisible ray,” he said impressively, “with

which I shall rejuvenate mankind.”



He plugged one of the cords into an outlet and a hissing, crackling

sound issued from the box. My employer stepped back, a little

disconcerted.



“Oh, for goodness’ sake turn that thing off, Liptrott,” said Mrs.

Julian pettishly. “I’ve had enough of it!”



He obeyed for the moment, but presently I saw him slyly turn it on

again. He played with it like a child, perfectly oblivious to the rest

of us.



Professor Ram Lal’s good humour having been restored, Mrs. Julian

suggested that he resume the s�ance. Immediately there were objections

from the other three.



“My dear Aline, the excitement is so bad for you!” said Mrs. Bracker.



“You promised to let me give a demonstration today,” grumbled the old

man.



Dr. Cushack produced an elegant Russian leather case from his breast

pocket. Upon being opened two rows of little vials containing drugs

were revealed. “At least you should take your medicine first,” he said.



The sight of the drugs made me jumpy. Was this the potential murderer?

I wondered. Was he going to poison her before our very eyes?



However, Mrs. Julian waved the dose away. “I don’t need it,” she said.

“Ram Lal does me more good than medicine.”



The East Indian stood up, pushed his chair back against the wall, and

smoothed down his frock-coat. He glanced with insulting complacency at

his beaten rivals. He made caressing passes with his hands over the

crystal sphere. He was excessively vain of his hands, which were soft

and plump with tapering fingers manicured to the limit. They looked

vicious to me.



“Lights, please,” he drawled affectedly.



Nobody moved, and Mrs. Julian said sharply: “Turn off the lights, Dr.

Cushack.”



Nothing in the room was visible except the lambent crystal, the pale

hands waving over it, and the smooth inhuman face in the reflected

light, staring at it with an awful intentness. He began to mutter

something in an uncouth tongue that was supposed to be Hindoo, but was

more likely mere gibberish. Pure trickery, but horribly effective. In

spite of myself I felt the unreasoning terror of a child. Goose-flesh

rose slowly all over my body.



The man was clearly working himself into a hysterical state. As he

went on his voice became convulsed; a vertical vein stood out on his

forehead, and his lips turned back over his ugly, misshapen teeth. My

own teeth were chattering. Trickery … trickery … I kept saying to

myself, but I could not break the spell.



Finally he began to speak English in jerky phrases with long pauses

between. “I perceive … I perceive a hill-top garden…. It is

winter, and the ground is covered with snow…. The garden is ringed

with evergreen trees weighted under snow…. But at either end there

is an opening amidst the trees which looks out over snowy hills and

valleys….”



“It is my place at Newtown to the life!” gasped Mrs. Julian. “Yet he

has never been there!”



I would have been willing to bet that he had been there.



“… An elegant woman comes through a gate from a lower level…. She

bears herself like a queen…. Though it is winter she is clad in the

rosy veils of Springtide….”



This was evidently intended for a portrait of Mrs. Julian.



“… As she advances the snow disappears…. The garden breaks into

leaf and flower; the distant hills turn green…. Now I perceive a

great throng of people silently gathered under the trees…. Their

faces aspire with gladness; they raise their arms above their heads….

For the queenly woman has brought light into their lives … the light

of universal knowledge…!”



The man now appeared to be completely possessed. His head rolled from

side to side, only the eyes preserving their level stare at the crystal

like water in a swaying vessel. He seemed to be speaking under an

immense compulsion; his voice was hoarse and broken; a line of white

foam edged his lips. It was too horrible, yet I could not drag my eyes

away.



“There is a little pavilion in the centre of the garden…. It is

completely embowered in vines…. I cannot perceive what is inside….

The woman advances towards it with firm proud steps…. Ardent …

aspiring with an inward fire…. She goes inside…. She finds…”

He stopped. His eyes rolled up in his head until only the whites

showed.



“Oh, tell me! tell me!” gasped Mrs. Julian.



“Joy supreme!” he yelled—and his body crashed to the floor in a heap.



We all cried out. Mme. Storey sprang up, and ran to the light switch.

Nobody else stirred. The room was flooded with light again, and I

covered my face with my hands. I heard my employer say in a crisp,

resolute voice:



“What is this?”



Mrs. Julian had put her handkerchief to her eyes. “It always ends this

way,” she whimpered. “He gives so much! The strain is more than

mortality can bear. He will come to directly.”



Mme. Storey relaxed. “Oh,” she said, “probably epilepsy. I have heard

that a fit can be induced in this manner.”



“Oh, Rosika, how can you!” said Mrs. Julian tearfully. “… Please

ring for the servants,” she added in a more matter-of-fact tone.



The bell was alongside the mantel behind us. Bunbury and a second man

entered almost immediately. It seemed as if they must have been

expecting a summons.



“Assist Professor Ram Lal to the retiring room,” said Mrs. Julian.



Bunbury took him by the shoulders, the other by the heels. His head

lolled from side to side in a horrible manner, and his eyes were open.

The two servants had impassive faces, yet it was clear they didn’t like

their task. They started for the door. Suddenly the butler dropped

the body with a horrid thud on the floor. Somebody screamed.



Bunbury turned a livid face towards his mistress. “My God, madam!

He’s stopped breathing! He’s dead!” he gasped.





III


How shall I describe the scene of confusion that followed? I was

dazed. To see death strike in such an unexpected direction; to see a

man die without any visible reason for it; it was too horrible. I

could not collect my faculties.



The second man, when he discovered he was carrying a corpse, crumpled

up in a dead faint. Bunbury dragged him out into the hall. Mme.

Storey started to telephone for the police. At the first sound of the

word police, Cushack, Mrs. Bracker and Liptrott made a dash to get out

of the room.



“Don’t let them out of the house!” cried Mme. Storey, ‘phone in hand.

But what could I do?



We found an unexpected aide in Bunbury. He ran in with outstretched

arms blocking the way. His eyes flashed compellingly, and he had

forgotten the smooth ways of the butler. “Stay where you are!” he

cried. “Nobody leaves this room until the police come!” He kicked the

door shut behind him.



The two men yelled to get out, the woman screamed in insensate terror.

“Be quiet, you fools!” cried Bunbury. “You are only convicting

yourselves!”



His strong voice quieted them. They returned across the room

trembling, and turned their backs on the body. Mme. Storey pulled down

a porti�re and covered it.



The police were in the house within a few minutes, bringing their own

doctor. Inspector Rumsey followed close behind them. Our old friend’s

face was grave.



“This will look bad for me,” he said to Mme. Storey; “after having

disregarded your warning.”



“My fault,” she said. “You put it up to me and I failed you.”



“Who could have foreseen this?” he said gloomily.



An examination of the body failed to reveal the cause of death. There

was no wound upon it. The supposed East Indian’s skin was really as

white as yours or mine. He was discovered to be a drug addict. A

hypodermic needle was found on him together with a half-filled bottle

of cocaine. There were marks of the needle on his arms and legs, but

apparently the needle in his pocket had not been used within the last

half-hour or so.



“I should say heart failure at a venture,” said the police doctor.



“I have reason to believe he was murdered,” said Mme. Storey.



“Then it must be poison. Somebody else may have jabbed a needle in

him. Could that have happened while the s�ance was going on?”



“Quite easily,” she answered. “It was dark in the room and our eyes

were fastened on Ram Lal’s face. Somebody might have crept along the

floor.”



I was looking at that sweating trio when she said it, and I saw strange

glances of terror pass between them. If they were all in this together

they must have foreseen what would follow, and why should they look at

each other? It was completely baffling.



The body was removed from the house for an autopsy.



Inspector Rumsey then set about searching the suspected persons. Dr.

Cushack came first. When the pocket medicine case came to light, the

Inspector handed it over to the doctor for examination. The latter

whistled upon reading the labels on the vials.



“A choice collection of poisons!” he remarked. “Some of them so rare I

am not familiar with their properties…. Do you use nothing but

poisons in your practice?” he queried sarcastically.



“I don’t practice,” muttered the young man. “I am engaged in research.

Poisons happen to be my speciality.”



“Which poison were you intending to give Mrs. Julian?” asked Mme.

Storey dryly.



Cushack paled. I suppose he had forgotten that incident. “No poison!

No poison!” he stammered. “This bottle,” he pointed to one of the

vials, “is marked antimony, but it only contains bicarbonate of soda.

I … I … These labels … are just a bluff.”



Everybody smiled.



“If you don’t believe me, analyse them! analyse them!” he cried.



One of the little vials was empty, which was suggestive if not exactly

incriminating. It bore no label. Nothing else of interest was found

upon him.



Next came the woman. From the side pocket of her smart jacket the

Inspector lifted a little leather case which, upon being opened,

revealed a hypodermic needle. She screamed at the sight of it.



“That’s not mine! I never saw it before! I don’t own such a thing! I

don’t know how it got into my pocket! You put it there yourself!”



“That’s what they all say,” remarked the Inspector wearily.



“I swear it! I swear it!” she screamed.



“Don’t swear to me,” he said. “You’ll have plenty of it to do later.”



She raved and beat her breast, but whether it was innocent or guilty

terror I declare I could not tell. After all, they look much the same.

You have to go by the evidence.



The old man Liptrott was fairly gibbering with fright when the

Inspector reached him. It was impossible to get a sensible word out of

him. Only crazy talk about his machine. Nothing incriminating was

found on him. But Mme. Storey pointed out that the mysterious

apparatus was plugged into the wall at the moment of Ram Lal’s death,

therefore the old man could not be freed of suspicion until the nature

of his machine had been investigated.



“It couldn’t hurt a fly!” cried Liptrott. “It’s to save life, not to

destroy it!”



“I’ll put it in the hands of an expert for examination,” said Inspector

Rumsey.



The old man looked at him aghast. Then suddenly frantic, he aimed a

kick at his beloved machine that would certainly have destroyed it, had

not Mme. Storey coolly moved it out of the way. A policeman flung an

arm around the old man.



“It’s the work of a lifetime!” he raved. “They’ll steal it from me!

They’ll steal it!”



As they were about to be taken away Mme. Storey said in that

dangerously pleasant way of hers: “Which one of you sent me, or caused

to be sent me, a message this morning warning me of what was going to

happen?”



They stared at her blankly.



“Somebody telephoned me that a murder would be committed here this

morning.”



I shall never forget the looks of consternation that spread over those

three faces. For the moment they were incapable of replying. Then

each stammeringly denied all knowledge of the telephone call. Again

they glanced at each other in fear and suspicion. One thing was clear,

they were speaking the truth then. Such perfect surprise could not

have been assumed. That, I suppose, was what my employer was after.





IV


I need hardly say that the case created a first-class sensation in the

press. Mrs. Julian’s wealth and prominence; the suggestions of mystery

and chicanery; the weird Oriental flavour; it had everything. The

public excitement seriously hampered the police and Mme. Storey in

their work, but of course we could not blame the newspapers for making

the most of a good story.



The reporters were already waiting for us in a body when we returned to

the office. Mme. Storey is popular with these boys because she deals

fairly with them. She will keep back information when it seems

necessary, but she does not lie to them. She now gave them the plain

facts of what had happened in Mrs. Julian’s house, and asked them to

withhold comment until the result of the autopsy became known.



“But the man is certainly dead,” said one.



“Quite!” said my employer with a dry smile. “But it is possible he

died from natural causes.”



They glanced at each other peculiarly, and young Winship of the

Morning Press dropped a bombshell at our feet by asking:



“Is it true, Madame Storey, that an unknown person called you on the

telephone this morning, and warned you that a murder would be committed

at Mrs. Julian’s house?”



She bit her lip in chagrin. “Where did you hear that?” she asked.



“My city editor told me to ask you.”



“We all heard the story,” said the others in chorus.



Before she answered them Mme. Storey had me call up the city editor of

the Morning Press. He told me he had been given the story by an

anonymous person over the telephone, and that, of course, he would not

run it unless Mme. Storey confirmed it. Presumably the same message

had been sent to all the papers.



This put my employer in rather a difficult position. But she settled

it promptly. “Yes, it is true,” she said. “I thought it was a hoax,

but I immediately called up Inspector Rumsey to tell him, and I went

myself to Mrs. Julian’s house.”



She was immediately bombarded with questions. “If you knew it, why

didn’t you stop it? Why did you allow the s�ance to go on?” And so

forth. And so forth.



“No more now,” she said firmly. “I’m going to ask you boys to say

nothing about the telephone call until we find out where we stand.”



“Why? Why?” they asked.



“Well, for one thing, I’d like to disappoint the mysterious gentleman

who is so keen about having it published.”



They were all willing to keep this piece of information back for

twenty-four hours except a man on one of those irresponsible sheets

that would sacrifice their mothers if there was a sensation in it. I

need not name it. This man slipped out of the room, and we knew he had

run off to his office with the story. That let them all out, of

course. They beat it for their offices.



My employer merely shrugged. “We can’t reform the press,” she said.

“We have to work with it as we find it.”



An hour or two later the first editions came out with scare heads.

Well, it was a juicy story. We got a shock when we read it, for, in

spite of the care Mme. Storey had taken to prevent such a thing, it

included a preposterous interview with Mrs. Julian.



We taxied to her house at once, for there was no telling how she might

react to the story of the telephone warning. Just as we were setting

out, we received some interesting particulars from the police as to the

so-called Ram Lal’s antecedents.



Bunbury let us into Mrs. Julian’s house. As befitted the perfect

butler his aspect was calm and grave. You would never have guessed

from him that a tragedy had been enacted upstairs that day. After all,

he was the only person in the house who had kept his head, and Mme.

Storey smiled at him encouragingly.



“How is your mistress, Bunbury?”



“Calm, madam.”



“Bunbury, for her own sake you ought not to let her talk to newspaper

reporters.”



He shrugged deprecatingly. “What can I do, madam? I perceived from

the first that it would be unwise, but she ignored my suggestions. I

cannot aspire to influence her actions.”



“What time did Ram Lal arrive here this morning?”



“Ten o’clock, madam.”



“Did you notice anything unusual about him?”



“No, madam, I perceived nothing out of the way.”



“Did he talk to anybody before he saw Mrs. Julian?”



“No, madam, I showed him directly to the boudoir. Dr. Cushack and Mrs.

Bracker were already there. Mr. Liptrott came later.”



As we moved towards the stairway Mme. Storey saw by Bunbury’s face that

he wished to say more. She paused.



“If I might add a word,” he went on apologetically, “—I hope it is not

unbecoming from one in my position—I have worked for Mrs. Julian for

eight years and I am sincerely attached to her. I hope you will give

her a good talking to, madam. She will listen to you. From the first

I perceived that something like this was bound to happen—indeed I

feared it might be worse.”



“I’ll do my best, Bunbury,” said Mme. Storey gravely.



We went on up to the boudoir. That woman’s folly was simply

incredible. We found her swathed in black chiffon, her face made up

dead white. She was seated in front of the lacquer table, on which she

had placed a photograph of the smug and unpleasant Ram Lal flanked with

lighted candles. Turning on my employer like a tragedy queen, she shot

out an accusing forefinger.



“You knew what was going to happen! And you didn’t prevent it! I

could almost call you his murderer!”



“Be yourself, Aline,” said Mme. Storey calmly. “I thought it was a

hoax. We are continually being hoaxed over the telephone.”



“Why didn’t you tell me?”



“Well, you are not a person that one tells things to. You carry on so!”



I doubt if this reached Mrs. Julian’s understanding.



“I thought the threat—if there was a threat—was directed against

you,” Mme. Storey went on. “Who could ever have foreseen that it was

worth anybody’s while to murder Ram Lal?”



It was useless to try to reason with Mrs. Julian. She raved on,

calling on Heaven to witness what a pure and holy man had been struck

down. There was a sort of complacency in her that suggested she was

thoroughly enjoying her own dramatics. Exasperating. However, Mme.

Storey merely smoked on and let her rave. When she could get a word in

edgewise, she said:



“When you quiet down we will discuss how to set about finding the

murderer. That’s all we can do for Ram Lal now.”



This started Mrs. Julian off at a new tangent. “She did it!” she

cried. “That woman! She was jealous of my favour. Oh, what black

ingratitude! After the thousands I have spent on her!”



“How could she have done it?” asked Mme. Storey mildly.



“Stole up to him when it was dark, and stuck the poisoned needle in his

leg! … I saw her! I saw her!” she cried wildly.



Mme. Storey was not impressed. “Why didn’t you say so at once?” she

asked.



“I was too much shocked. I didn’t realise…. But I saw her, I tell

you!”



“Now come, Aline,” said my employer. “Are you prepared to go on the

stand and swear that you saw Mrs. Bracker do it?”



Mrs. Julian began to falter. “Well … no…. But she did it just the

same. They found the needle on her, didn’t they?”



“She claimed that it was planted in her pocket.”



“That’s a lie, anyhow! She bought that needle a week ago. I know

that.”



Mme. Storey took more interest. “That’s important if true. How do you

know it?”



“One day after she had been here I found a little package on the table

wrapped in druggists’ paper. Not knowing whose it was, I opened it,

and the hypodermic needle was inside. She was quite embarrassed when I

asked her about it. Said she had bought it for a friend.”



“Was the name of the druggist on the paper?”



“Yes. It was Almon and Emory.”



“Can you fix the date?”



“Let me see … I was wearing my new pink dress when I handed it to

her. That was Saturday. It must have been Friday when she bought it.”



“Friday, February fourth,” said my employer. “Make a note of it,

Bella…. How long have you known the woman?”



“About a year. She brought a letter from Mrs. Applewhite recommending

her as a reducer.”



“Who’s Mrs. Applewhite?”



“Oh, she was my most intimate friend at that time, but we’ve quarrelled

since. She’s just a woman that you meet in hotels.”



“Mrs. Bracker was a reducer?” prompted Mme. Storey.



“Yes, she had a new idea. No fasting, no drugs. She just demonstrated

slimness.”



“Eh?” said Mme. Storey, running up her eyebrows.



“Will-power,” said Mrs. Julian.



“Hers or yours?”



“Oh, hers entirely. That’s what I paid her for. I had nothing to do

but sit and relax.”



“I see.”



“Seemed so modest and sensible,” Mrs. Julian went on. “And you gotta

admit her methods had been successful in her own case. She used to

weigh 176 pounds. That little woman. Showed me photographs of herself

step by step. She took off 68 pounds without denying herself a thing!”



“Did you see her eating everything?”



“No. She never took her meals here.”



“I thought not. Go on.”



“It was lovely to be able to eat as much as I wanted,” said Mrs. Julian

innocently. “I do enjoy my meals so. And I lost weight all the time!”

She sprang up, gave her skirts a flirt in front of the mirror, and

looked at herself coyly over her shoulder. “You gotta admit, Rosika,

that I’m ever so much slenderer than I was last year.”



“Optimist!” murmured Mme. Storey under her breath. “How much money

have you given her?” she asked aloud.



“Latterly it’s been five hundred a week. She claimed to be giving me

her entire time. She didn’t have to be with me, she said. She could

sit in her own room and concentrate on my slenderness. She showed me

the scales every week.”



“Doctored,” said Mme. Storey. “You hadn’t stopped paying her, had you?

Why was she jealous of Ram Lal?”



“Well, she wanted me to settle a lump sum on her.”



“Had you promised to do so?”



“Not exactly promised. I couldn’t seem to get the money together. I

gave it all to Ram Lal.”



“How much?”



“A hundred thousand for the crystal. I was trying to get two hundred

thousand together to purchase a site for the temple. Nobody knew about

the money I gave him. That was a secret between Ram Lal and me.”



“I wonder if it was!” remarked Mme. Storey. “… How about Liptrott?”

she went on.



“Oh, just a harmless lunatic,” said Mrs. Julian impatiently. “I’ve

been keeping him for years. There’s that machine of his. Supposed to

restore youth. He’s always after me to start a company to manufacture

it. Once I thought there was something in it, but latterly Mrs.

Bracker and Dr. Cushack seemed to be doing me so much good I hadn’t

much time for Liptrott.”



“So Dr. Cushack has been doing you good, too,” said Mme. Storey.



Mrs. Julian paused and her fat face started to work like a child’s

about to cry. “I thought he was,” she wailed. “But my family doctor

says he’s just been feeding me morphine! … Cushack said it was a

rare drug called adrianum. He imported it from the Great Gobi desert

in China, and it cost five hundred dollars a gram…. Oh, it made me

feel so good!” she added, dissolving into tears altogether.



“I don’t doubt it,” said Mme. Storey. “You need a nurse.”



“I know it!” wailed Mrs. Julian. “I have the heart of a child!”



“For goodness’ sake why don’t you make friends with decent people?”

asked Mme. Storey.



“Nobody likes me except the people I give money to,” mourned Mrs.

Julian.



My employer and I looked at each other. It was only too true!



“Where did you meet Cushack?” asked Mme. Storey.



“At one of Mrs. Piper’s teas. She always has such clever people. He

attracted me from the first because he talked so intellectually. I

adore intellect. Had diplomas from all the best foreign universities.

He had a new theory. Toxi-therapy, he called it.”



“It’s new all right,” murmured my employer.



“You know, it means fighting poison with poison. It certainly sounded

convincing. I asked him if my nervousness came from a poison, and he

said certainly, and told me of this wonderful new drug. And after he

had been to see me a few times I took some.”



“You let him give you a poison!” exclaimed Mme. Storey.



“Oh, he took some himself first,” said Mrs. Julian with her innocent

baby stare. “He carried around the most terrible poisons, and took

them quite freely, because he had made himself immune.”



Mme. Storey could only shake her head. “How about Ram Lal?” she asked.

“Did you meet him at a tea?”



“No, he wrote asking me to help the starving millions in India. No

thought of self. I didn’t pay any attention to his first letters; I

get so many! But later he said something that proved he was psychic.”



“What was that?”



“Oh, you’ll only laugh. He wrote that the feeling kept coming to him

that I was starving too, in the midst of my riches, and he was holding

a thought of spiritual sustenance in his mind.”



“So you asked him to call.”



“Yes. Oh, my dear, if you could have seen him you wouldn’t scoff. So

thin and emaciated; his great eyes burning with an other-worldly light!

He had spent years in abstinence and meditation.”



“Seems to have put on flesh since,” murmured Mme. Storey.



“Well, yes, a little…. But, oh, my dear! a true mystic! There was a

little crystal on my desk, just an ornament. His gaze fastened on it

and he began to read the past and the future. Imagine my joy!”



“How about the starving millions in India?”



“Well, we found that the reports were much exaggerated.”



“The truth is,” said Mme. Storey relentlessly, “Ram Lal’s brown skin

went no farther than his neck and wrists. I am informed by the police

that his right name was Sam Gumpel. He was the son of an East Side

tailor who threw him out years ago because he wouldn’t work.”



Mrs. Julian buried her face in her hands. “No! No!” she wailed. “I

will not believe it! Oh, spare me my last illusion!” But in her heart

she knew it was true.



“I assume you paid all these people by cheque?” said Mme. Storey.



Mrs. Julian, weeping, nodded her head.



“Then I want you to make me a list from the stubs of all the sums you

have given them with the dates.”



She promised to do so.



“Last year,” said Mme. Storey severely. “I found you in the hands of a

witch-doctor and a woman who called herself a physi-meliorator. What

has become of them?”



“I sent them away,” whimpered Mrs. Julian. “Bunbury caught them faking

and told me.”



“With you,” my employer went on, divided between pity and exasperation,

“life seems to be just one damn faker after another. What’s to become

of you if you go on like this? I can’t spare the time to get you out

of your scrapes.”



“What am I to do?” wailed Mrs. Julian in one of her rare bursts of

honesty; “anybody with a slick tongue can get around me!”



“Hire a watch dog to stand between you and such people. Get an

incorruptible woman for a secretary; one who will tell you the truth!”



“Where could I find such a one?”



“I’ll find her for you…. But mind you, if you fire her for telling

you the truth, I swear I’ll have you declared incompetent by the

courts!”



“Oh, I’ll do anything you say, Rosika! Anything!”





V


Inspector Rumsey was in our office to report on what the police had

been doing, and to confer with my employer. I should point out that

Mme. Storey’s connection with this case was purely ex officio. It

was entirely a police matter, and she worked with them merely because

her reputation was involved owing to that confounded telephone call.



At the same time we were quietly busy on our own account. Crider and

Stephens, two of our best men, had been detailed to watch the Julian

house and to report on all who entered or left it. I had verified the

sale of the hypodermic needle to Mrs. Bracker. Mme. Storey had sent

for a transcript of the examination of the three suspects by the

police, and was studying it. Psychology is her forte.



Everything still waited on the result of the autopsy. Dr. Chisholm,

the toxicologist who was conducting it, had promised to meet the

Inspector in our office at eleven.



“What progress have you made since I saw you?” asked Mme. Storey.



“I have been progressing backward,” the Inspector bitterly answered.



She laughed and pushed the cigarettes towards him. “Well, it isn’t the

first time we’ve been stumped, old friend.”



“It seems as if there was a regular conspiracy to baulk me!” he went

on, pounding his thigh. “Matson, who runs the homicide bureau in the

district attorney’s office, won’t act. Says the case is a mare’s nest.

In short, he leaves me holding the bag. On the other hand, the three

suspects have engaged Jim Shryock to represent them. The cleverest and

most unscrupulous shyster in New York! He’s been a thorn in my side

for years!”



“Has he made any move?”



“Yes. He’s given me forty-eight hours to have his clients arraigned

before a magistrate, or he’ll swear out writs of habeas corpus, he

says. When there is a suspicion of murder a magistrate would hold them

upon the least bit of evidence. But I haven’t even that. Shryock

knows that he has me!”



“Oh, well,” said Mme. Storey soothingly, “the result of the autopsy may

force him to change his tune.”



“I don’t know,” said Rumsey darkly. “He seems damn sure of himself.”



“What have you learned about these people?”



“Very little. On the woman’s cards she gave her address as the Hotel

Vandermeer. I found for a fact that she had been living there nearly a

year. An expensive suite. The management denied that she’s been

carrying on any business in the hotel.”



“They would say that anyhow.”



“Sure. She had her own telephone. The servants said she had no

visitors. I found cocaine in powder form in her room, so I assume she

is an addict. Nothing to throw any light on her past except half a

dozen family photographs. I’m trying to trace them through the names

of the photographers that appear on the cards.”



“Here’s a lead,” said Mme. Storey. “I find that Mrs. Bracker purchased

a hypodermic needle from the firm of Almon and Emory on February

fourth. She presented an order for it signed by Dr. A. Cushack.”



Rumsey sat up with a jerk. “Good!” he cried. “Then it was her needle

that we found on her. It implicates them both. Now we have the

beginning of a case!”



“We may have,” said Mme. Storey cautiously.



“As to the Doctor,” the Inspector went on, “I have had the contents of

his medicine case analysed, and the so-called poisons turn out to be

harmless. Common salt; coloured water; alcohol and the like. One

contained morphine but not in sufficient quantity to kill. The fellow

was actually speaking the truth!”



“Even a liar has to sometimes,” murmured Mme. Storey.



“I visited his office; a single room in a commercial building on

Forty-Second Street. There was chemical paraphernalia lying about;

retorts, bottles, etc. No drugs. Nothing to show he had been working

there lately.”



“Probably cleaned up in expectation of a search,” suggested Mme. Storey.



“No doubt,” said Rumsey gloomily.



“Did you question the office cleaners?” she asked.



“Not yet.”



“I’ll do that when we learn the result of the autopsy.”



“Very well…. There were no letters or personal papers,” he resumed.

“To my surprise, his diploma turned out to be genuine. He was

graduated from Jefferson five years ago, and admitted to practice in

this state the same year.”



“You have inquired at the college?”



“Yes. Members of the faculty identified him from a photograph. Was

remembered as a sharp lad but an indifferent student. Not well liked.”



“And Liptrott?” asked Mme. Storey.



“I have been able to piece together a fairly complete life story for

him. Has lived at the Sanford House on West Eleventh Street for many

years. An ancient hotel now much run down. Has several important

inventions to his credit, but the money he got for them has been spent

long ago. He is alone in the world now. Is considered slightly

cracked by his associates in the hotel.



“There is no doubt that he has gone deeply into the nature of

electrical phenomena. I had an expert from the G.E. laboratories to

study his machine. Could make nothing of it. Says it appears to be a

senseless conglomeration of tubes and wires and magnets. But he will

not swear there is nothing in it without having some knowledge of what

Liptrott was after. The longer you study electricity, he says, the

greater respect you have for its possibilities.”



“Quite,” said Mme. Storey.



“I found cocaine in liquid form in Liptrott’s room,” said the

Inspector, “but no needle. He’s evidently an addict too. He’s been

whining for it all day. I don’t know what’s coming to the world!”



“Oh, the world is much as it always was,” returned Mme. Storey. “These

people belong to a special class, moral invalids; it’s natural they

should turn to drugs to buoy them up…. I suggest you give him a

needle to steady him,” she went on. “Bring him up here with his

machine before lunch, and let him give you and me a demonstration.”



Rumsey agreed.



“What have you learned about Ram Lal?” she asked.



“A month ago he rented a house on West Seventy-Ninth Street near

Columbus Avenue. No one there when I entered it yesterday. Had been

lavishly furnished in Oriental style. According to the neighbours he

employed several servants, but they had vanished. I found nothing that

threw any light on the manner of his murder.”



Promptly at eleven the buzzer sounded in the outer office announcing

the coming of Dr. Chisholm. He was the most famous toxicologist in New

York and a good all-round man. We had had dealings with him before.



I led him into Mme. Storey’s room. His face was giving nothing away.

The Inspector jumped up eagerly. He could scarcely wait for polite

greetings to be exchanged.



“Well, doctor?”



Dr. Chisholm spread out his hands deprecatingly. “The result of the

autopsy is nil,” he said. “I cannot tell you what killed Ram Lal.”



It was a bitter disappointment. Inspector Rumsey dropped back into his

chair with a grunt. My employer carefully knocked the ash off her

cigarette.



I pushed forward a chair for the doctor. For a moment there was

silence in the room. Finally Mme. Storey said incredulously:



“A man dies, and with all the resources of science at your command you

cannot say why!”



“He died because his heart stopped beating,” he replied. “I don’t know

why it stopped.”



“No trace of poison in his blood?”



“None whatever.”



“Or in his stomach?”



“None.”



“How could he have been poisoned through the stomach?” put in Rumsey.



“To be sure,” said Mme. Storey; “but I didn’t want to overlook

anything…. But do men die like that?” she went on to the doctor.

“Without any apparent reason for it?”



“Oh, yes, Madame.”



“Healthy men?”



“Few men over forty can be said to be perfectly healthy. His lungs

showed some infiltration due to old tubercular lesions. His heart was

a little enlarged, but without any pericarditis. There were also some

suspicious spots in the pelvis. All common conditions.”



“But none of them sufficient to have caused death?”



“Not ordinarily.”



“Then if this was just an ordinary case the report would be that the

man died of…?”



“Heart failure, Madame.”



Mme. Storey and the Inspector looked at each other. Rumsey was very

glum.



“But there are poisons, doctor,” my employer insisted, “that may kill

without leaving any trace of themselves in the body?”



“There are such poisons,” he answered cautiously, “but naturally they

are not known outside the laboratory. We never meet them in practice.”



“There is a possibility this crime may be the work of a chemist.”



“I am aware of it.”



“Would you be kind enough to prepare me a list of such poisons together

with their properties and effects so far as known?” she asked.



“Certainly, Madame.”



“What’s the use?” said Rumsey. “Even though there are such poisons,

how can we go beyond the body?”



“Every precedent has to be created in the first place,” she answered

smiling.



“I say we’re stalled,” he said with his harassed air. “Aren’t we

justified now in assuming that it was only a coincidence?”



“How do you mean?”



“Well, a practical joker calls up and tells you there is going to be a

murder at Mrs. Julian’s. You go there, and a man happens to die from

natural causes.”



Mme. Storey slowly shook her head. “That would be stretching the arm

of coincidence too far. I don’t believe he died a natural death, and

you don’t believe it. The public would never believe it, and if we

tried to put it over it would only react to the damage of our own

reputations.”



“But what can we do?” he said helplessly. “There is no case!”



“We must build up a case.”



“Have you a theory?” he asked eagerly.



“I have a theory,” she answered dryly, “but the evidence is

insufficient.”



They agreed among themselves to withhold the result of the autopsy for

a few hours, or at least until Dr. Chisholm had time to read up on the

rare poisons that might have been administered to Ram Lal. However, as

he was in the act of taking his leave, the telephone rang and a man’s

voice inquired for him.



I handed the instrument over to him. He presently clapped a hand over

the transmitter and lifted a dismayed face.



“It’s the city editor of the Morning Press,” he said. “He tells me

somebody has just called him up to say that the autopsy on the body of

Ram Lal revealed no trace of poison. He wants me to confirm it. At my

office they told him I was here.”



Inspector Rumsey jumped up, swearing roundly. My employer used no

expletives, but her face turned grim.



“This is the fine Italian hand of the murderer again,” she said

quietly. “He is vain of his crime.”



“But the suspects are all locked up!” cried the perplexed Inspector.

“How could they reach a telephone?”



She did not answer. “If the truth is out we would only make ourselves

ridiculous by denying it,” she said to Dr. Chisholm. “Tell the city

editor his information is correct.”



He did so, and hung up. Both men looked to my employer for

inspiration. She arose and paced the long room, thinking hard. At

last she said:



“When you find yourself up against it, unexpected measures are called

for. Jim Shryock dares you to produce the suspects for a hearing two

days hence. Why wait until he is ready? Shryock is famous for his

success in making away with evidence. I suggest you produce them

before a magistrate this afternoon.”



“They’ll be set free!” cried Rumsey.



“It doesn’t matter much,” she said impatiently; “none of those three is

the actual murderer…. Have them up this afternoon. Summon your

witnesses to court. But do not let the suspects be arraigned until

just before court adjourns. If the case goes over until the next day

so much the better. I take it you can arrange that?”



“Sure!” said the puzzled Rumsey. “Anything you say. But what’s the

idea. Just give me a hint of what you’re up to so I won’t make any

mistake.”



“It’s simply this,” she answered. “I want to collect the whole

dramatis person� in court this afternoon, and keep them there, so

that I can do some intensive work on the case without interference.”



“How about Liptrott?”



“I’ll attend to him while I’m eating my lunch.”





VI


In order to save time I had a light lunch sent in for Mme. Storey. She

was eating it when Liptrott was brought up from Headquarters carrying

his precious box. His guards were invited to wait in the hall.

Inspector Rumsey who had been away on some errand returned about the

same time.



I have already described the old man with his decent black clothes and

old-fashioned Yankee manner. There was no look of the potential

murderer about him. On all subjects but one he seemed perfectly sane

and shrewd, but when that blessed machine came up, his tongue went

wild. Such borderline cases, of course, may be extremely dangerous.



“He’s happy again,” the Inspector whispered to Mme. Storey. “They gave

him another needle.”



And indeed the old man seemed as pleased as a child at a party. My

employer had me order in some good cigars for him. He bit the end off

one, and lighted it with gusto.



“The real Havana, mem. Once I smoked none but the best myself.”



We grouped ourselves around the big writing-table.



“Mr. Liptrott,” said Mme. Storey, “I didn’t have them bring you up here

to be worried with questions about that terrible affair yesterday. I

am just curious about that wonderful machine of yours, and I’m hoping

you’ll give me a demonstration.”



He sprang up with alacrity. “Happy to oblige, ‘m.”



I was sitting on Mme. Storey’s right with my notebook on the table.

The Inspector was opposite her with his chair turned half around so he

could watch Liptrott. The old man carried his apparatus to the nearest

outlet in the baseboard, and lifted out the smaller box with the cords

dangling from it, and switches and dials on top. Plugging it in, he

turned a switch and I heard the familiar buzzing and crackling. The

sound brought back the whole horrible scene in Mrs. Julian’s boudoir.



Satisfied that it was working all right, he switched it off and gave us

a little lecture. I shall not try to repeat it all. A crazy mixture

of electrical and physiological terms, it sounded like utter nonsense

to me. For instance:



“… And so, mem, just as a man-made generator gathers the vital

principle out of the air and sends it to us in a current that we can

use for light and power, so nature’s generator which is the body,

absorbs life through its organs. But as the body machine wears out it

becomes less able to transmute raw life to its own uses, and so our

vitality fails.



“My machine replaces the organs and glands of the body. It takes raw

electricity from the power station and digests it into a form that the

body can use. I am no quack doctor. I make no claim that it can cure

disease. I only say that it will furnish you with the vitality

necessary to resist disease and to keep you young.”



The obvious question was, why didn’t he renew his own visibly failing

vitality? However, nobody put it to him.



“How wonderful!” said Mme. Storey. “Can you give us all a sample now?”



“Not all of you at once,” he said. “One at a time. I must first find

out the measure of a person’s vitality, and set the machine

accordingly. No two persons are the same.”



“I see,” said Mme. Storey. “We are all like radio receiving sets that

only pick up the wave lengths for which we are set.”



“Same principle, mem.”



You see there was a crazy plausibility about his spiel. I could

understand how a woman like Mrs. Julian might be deceived by it for a

while.



Liptrott held out a small zinc cylinder that was connected to the

machine by a cord. “If you’ll grasp this a minute the dial will

register.”



Mme. Storey obeyed, and he read off the dial: “Seven four seven, point

two five. Your vitality is very high, mem. You would not need my

machine for many a year to come.”



“That’s nice. I suppose it won’t hurt me.”



“Oh, no. Nobody feels so good but what they couldn’t feel better.”



He took the cylinder from her. “What must I do now?” she asked.



“Nothing, mem. You may sit and eat. The best of my machine is, the

user don’t have to devote any time to it. You can go on about your

business and it will still be doing its work as long as you’re in the

same room.”



“How convenient!”



Seating herself, she took another sandwich. Meanwhile Liptrott turned

a switch, and the crackling recommenced. He had set up a little

vertical steel disc on top of the box, and turned it towards Mme.

Storey. For a while nothing was said.



“Do you feel anything?” he asked at last.



“A sort of pleasant warmth stealing through my veins.”



“That’s it!” he cried exultantly. “Increased vitality … I am only

giving you a very little,” he added. “Too much would be dangerous,

very dangerous!”



It was impossible to tell from Mme. Storey’s expression whether she was

really impressed or not. Rumsey was watching her covertly.



Liptrott presently switched off the current. “That’s enough,” he said,

“or you wouldn’t get any sleep tonight.”



“I am tingling all over,” she said.



He carefully deposited the box in its case together with the various

cords and handles, and locked it up. He then stood up with a manner

that he intended to be very dramatic, but it was pathetic in one so

old. His eyes were quite daft then.



“Now that I have convinced you of the worth of my invention,” he said,

“I have a statement to make.”



Mme. Storey was calmly eating. “What is it?”



He folded his arms like an old-time actor. “It was me who killed

Professor Ram Lal.”



“Good God! how?” exclaimed Rumsey.



“With my machine. I gave him the full charge. It killed him. I told

Mme. Storey over the ‘phone I was going to do it.”



“Yours was not the voice I heard over the ‘phone,” I said.



“I changed my voice to sound young.”



“What did you do it for?” demanded the Inspector.



“He was a blackguard and a swindler! I killed him to save Mrs. Julian.”



“Is there anything in this?” said the Inspector turning to Mme. Storey.



She glanced at the old man enigmatically. “I find it hard to believe,”

she said, “because I only experienced good from the machine.” Clearly,

this was to draw him out.



Mildly as the doubt was expressed, it roused Liptrott to a crazy fury.

In order to justify his invention he was willing, it appeared, to send

himself to the chair. “It’s true! It’s true,” he cried stamping on

the floor. “What can build up can also destroy! If I had an animal

here, a dog, a cat, a bird, I could prove it to you. I would kill it

before your eyes.”



My employer pretended to raise objections. “I don’t want anything

killed.”



“Then I won’t kill it,” said Liptrott. “I’ll just drive it crazy for a

while. That will show you…. Send out to an animal store,” he

begged; “get a guinea pig, a young dog, anything that has life!”



The upshot of this strange scene was that I was presently despatched to

the basement to borrow the house cat from the engineer.



He had his machine out of the box again, and was testing it when I

entered. He had calmed down, but his glance was still perfectly

insane. “It will be a little difficult to take her register,” he said.

“You had better hold her since she’s accustomed to you.”



I held the cat on her back in my lap, putting the zinc cylinder against

her breast as Liptrott told me, while he steadied her hindquarters.

She was a gentle cat and made no protest at first, but suddenly with a

loud miaow, she leaped from my lap and running to the door, scratched

at it, and looked at me reproachfully over her shoulder.



“I have her register!” cried Liptrott, glancing at his dial. “It is

seven six eight. A very strong cat. So much the better!”



Switching on the current he turned the steel disc in the direction of

the cat. She, seeing that no further move was made against her, sat

down with admirable composure, and started licking her paw.



It all seemed like crazy nonsense to me, nevertheless my heart was

beating fast. There was something uncanny about it. There was no

sound in the room but the muffled crackling and buzzing from inside the

box.



Suddenly the cat with an uneasy whine arose and stood as if listening,

twitching her tail. She crouched and whimpered, twisting her head from

side to side. Then with a cry she began to run. She ran straight into

the wall. She seemed to have increased to twice her size and her tail

stood up as thick as a fox’s brush. Faster and faster she ran like a

creature possessed, until she seemed to be running straight around the

walls.



Liptrott switched off the current. He laughed and slapped his thigh in

childish delight. “Now will you believe me! Now will you believe me!”

he babbled.



I stared at him in horror. Crazy he certainly was, but it seemed to me

that he possessed the power of life and death in that black box!



“Good God, then it’s true!” muttered the Inspector. “It was he who

killed Ram Lal!”



“He had no more to do with Ram Lal’s death than I had,” said Mme.

Storey coolly from her chair. “I suspected it from the first. Now I

know it. There is nothing the matter with the cat but a shot of

cocaine. I saw him give her the needle while Bella held her.”



Poor Rumsey looked excessively foolish. I know I felt so.



Liptrott, when his trick was exposed, snarled with rage, and started

cursing us all. His guards led him away.



“Nothing in it but a crazy desire to win notoriety for his machine,”

said Mme. Storey. “There’s no use bringing him up in court. Better

take him home to his hotel.”





VII


Since I had inside information that the suspects in the Ram Lal case

were not to be arraigned until near the close of the session, I did not

go to court until after four. The place was the West Side Court on

Fifty-Third Street. I was provided with a witness’ card which would

admit me to a seat on the front benches.



The gross figure of Jim Shryock was lolling in the corner seat of the

front row. With a sneer fixed in his face, he was idly trimming his

nails. An entirely unscrupulous lawyer with mysterious political

affiliations, he was one of the most sinister figures in New York.

Everybody knew he was a crook, but it seemed impossible to reach him.

In the end I’m glad to say, Mme. Storey caught him with the goods. But

that’s another story.



I was astonished to see that he had old Liptrott sitting beside him.

At the moment I was unable to figure out the significance of this move.

Liptrott was quiet enough then.



The magistrate was McManigal, one of the newer appointees who take

themselves very seriously.



As the moments passed, the frown on Inspector Rumsey’s face deepened.

He knew that he was doomed to cut a ridiculous figure in court unless

Mme. Storey came to his aid before our suspects were arraigned.



Finally their names were called, and they were brought in. Cushack was

trying to look nonchalant, while Mrs. Bracker was tight-lipped and

defiant. Both wished to have it understood that though they happened

to be arraigned together, there was no connection between them. Jim

Shryock arose lazily, and entered the enclosure to whisper with them.



Rumsey started a speech to the bench relating all the circumstances of

Ram Lal’s death. He was obviously sparring for time, and his Honour

soon became impatient.



“Inspector, it’s scarcely necessary to go into detail concerning a

matter that has been so thoroughly written up in the newspapers. Just

present your evidence against these persons and I’ll hold them.”



Rumsey bowed, and called to the stand a clerk from the store of Almon

and Emory who testified to the sale of a hypodermic needle to Mrs.

Bracker, and identified the order she had presented for it signed by

Dr. Cushack. The clerk was followed by a policeman who testified to

the finding of a needle on Mrs. Bracker after the death of Ram Lal.

Inspector Rumsey then called me to the stand to testify as to the

obvious jealousy and hatred that Cushack and Mrs. Bracker had exhibited

towards Ram Lal.



“Is that all?” asked the magistrate, running up his eyebrows.



“That is all, your Honour.”



Shryock spoke up. “If you please, your Honour, Mrs. Bracker would like

to testify in her own behalf concerning that needle.”



She was put on the stand and sworn. In her neat, close-fitting grey

suit and shaped hat she was as smart as paint. Just the same she was a

horrible-looking woman with those ghastly starved cheeks, and mouth

like a red gash in her powdered face. She sat down, crossed her legs

and spread her gloves on her knee with a great pretence of

self-possession.



“Do you admit buying the needle at Almon and Emory’s?” asked Shryock

smoothly.



“Certainly. But that was not the one they found in my pocket.”



“One moment! Just confine yourself to answering my questions,

please…. For what purpose did you buy that needle?”



“Well, I told Mrs. Julian I bought it for a friend,” she said volubly,

“but that was only a stall. I’m not an addict but I take cocaine

occasionally for my neuralgia. And Dr. Cushack told me it was nicer to

take it in liquid form. So I bought the needle. But I didn’t like

taking it that way, so I threw it away.”



“Oh, you threw it away. Where?”



“One night when I was crossing Brooklyn Bridge in a taxi I threw it out

of the window.”



“What about the needle that was found in your pocket?”



“I know nothing about that!” she cried stridently. “It wasn’t mine!

It was planted on me!”



“All right,” said Shryock. “That’s all.” He turned to Rumsey. “Will

you question her, Inspector?”



“No,” said Rumsey glumly.



Shryock’s next move was to put Liptrott on the stand. “When Ram Lal

fell down dead in Mrs. Julian’s boudoir,” the lawyer sad, “I understand

that you and these two people were seated behind him and to one side

against the wall.”



“Yes, sir.” The old man was perfectly composed. “I was nearest to the

Hindoo, then Mrs. Bracker, then the Doctor.”



“Did either of those persons move from their places while the s�ance

was going on?”



“No, sir. They never moved.”



“Are you sure?”



“Sure I’m sure. They couldn’t have reached the Hindoo without passing

in front of me.”



“All right. Now I’ve got just one more question to ask you.” Shryock

glanced around the court as much as to say there was something good

coming. “Can you tell me anything about the hypodermic needle that was

found in Mrs. Bracker’s pocket?”



A foolish grin spread over the old man’s face. He scratched his neck

with a forefinger. “Sure,” he said, “that was my needle. I planted it

in her pocket.”



His words created a mild sensation in the room. All realised that what

little was left of the Inspector’s case had gone glimmering.



“Why did you do that?” asked Shryock.



“Well, when I seen Ram Lal was dead I thought maybe they’d try to hang

it on me,” the old man said with his witless grin. “I had the needle

in my pocket, and I thought they’d make out I’d given him a shot of

something since I was the nearest to him.”



“That’s all,” said Shryock in high satisfaction.



“I protest, your Honour,” said Rumsey indignantly. “This man is out of

his wits. He’s not a fit witness. I can prove it if you give me time.”



“Just a minute, Inspector,” said the magistrate. “As I understand it,

this man Liptrott is an addict. You found a bottle of cocaine on him,

but no needle. Is that right?”



“Yes.”



“Did you ever find his needle?”



“No.”



“Then the chances are he’s speaking the truth.”



“I insist he’s not a proper witness,” said Rumsey, snatching at

anything to gain a moment or two.



The magistrate shrugged. “Can you offer any evidence that Ram Lal died

of poison?” he asked.



“No, your Honour.”



“Then it doesn’t matter whether this man’s testimony is proper or not.

You have no case, Inspector. And I have no alternative but to…”



He was interrupted by the entrance of Mme. Storey.



She entered by the side door smiling and beautifully dressed. She was

carrying a small satchel and a man and a woman followed her; new

witnesses, I assumed. They were unknown to me. Inspector Rumsey’s

glum face cleared as if by magic. A murmur of gratification travelled

around the court—then dead silence. All knew her, of course, from her

oft-published photographs. As a star attraction Mrs. Julian was

nowhere alongside Mme. Storey. The people’s silence seemed to say: Now

we’ll get a run for our money.



And they did.





VIII


Before I go on with my account of the magistrate’s hearing I should

explain that amongst the list of rare poisons furnished by Dr.

Chisholm, there was one that could be quite simply prepared by

distilling and redistilling a substance that is in universal use. This

stuff may be purchased in any quantity from druggists or department

stores, yet the poison derived from it is one of the deadliest known;

moreover, it kills without leaving any trace of itself in the body.



The process of distilling is now so generally understood, that all the

doctors in the case agreed it would be against the public interest to

advertise this formula. Consequently this poison was never named in

the case, and of course I must not name it here. I will simply call

the stuff X and the poison distillate DX.



Magistrate McManigal greeted Mme. Storey gallantly and invited her to a

place on the bench. As she seated herself she said:



“I have brought a little additional evidence in this case.”



Ah! with what a sharp anxiety Cushack and Mrs. Bracker glanced at her

then! The little doctor lost his nonchalance. Jim Shryock chewed the

ends of his ragged moustache, sneering still.



“Do you wish these persons to be called to the stand?” asked the

magistrate.



“First of all I would like Mrs. Bracker to answer a few questions if

she is willing,” she said politely.



The woman glanced anxiously at Shryock, and he answered for her.

“Certainly! She is not obliged to answer the questions unless it suits

her.”



So Mrs. Bracker took the stand again.



Mme. Storey began in a voice as mild as milk—it is at such moments

that she is most to be feared: “I suppose you were well acquainted with

Ram Lal through having met him at Mrs. Julian’s so often.”



“No, indeed!” said Mrs. Bracker with a toss of her head. “I never

aspired to be his friend. I had nothing whatever to do with him.”



“What is your explanation of his death?” asked Mme. Storey innocently.



“Oh, I suppose he had a stroke of some sort. Not surprising with the

life he led.”



“What about his life?”



“Don’t ask me! One couldn’t help hearing stories about what went on at

that elegant seraglio of his on Seventy-Ninth Street.”



Mme. Storey made no attempt to follow up this lead. “I suppose you

have witnessed many of Ram Lal’s s�ances at Mrs. Julian’s?” she said.



“Sure,” was the indifferent reply.



“Weren’t you impressed by them?”



“No!”



“Then you believe they weren’t genuine?”



“He was just a common faker!” said Mrs. Bracker scornfully. “That’s

known now, isn’t it? East Indian! Huh!”



“But he seemed to me to be completely possessed,” said Mme. Storey

blandly; “to be lifted right out of himself as you might say.”



Mrs. Bracker merely laughed disagreeably.



“Did they always end the same as yesterday in a sort of fit?”



“Sure! That was part of his game.”



“But how could he fake that?” said Mme. Storey. “The frothing at the

mouth and all.”



“Used to slip a wafer in his mouth,” said Mrs. Bracker laughing. “Sort

of soapy wafer. That made the froth. It’s an old trick.”



“Did you see him do that?” asked Mme. Storey feigning to be greatly

surprised.



“Sure. I used to watch for it.”



“Did you see him do it yesterday?”



“Sure. I saw his hands go up.”



“Thanks, that’s all,” said Mme. Storey unexpectedly.



Mrs. Bracker stared at her hatefully. She felt that she had been

tricked somehow. “What’s that got to do with me?” she demanded.



“Nothing whatever,” said Mme. Storey sweetly.



Mrs. Bracker stepped down in somewhat of a fluster.



“What do you expect to show by this line of questioning?” the

magistrate asked Mme. Storey. We all pricked up our ears for her

answer. She said: “The first assumption was that Ram Lal had been

poisoned through being jabbed by a hypodermic needle. That theory

won’t hold water. I now aim to show that he was poisoned by the wafer

which he took into his mouth a few seconds before he died.”



“But the poison, Madame?”



“I’m coming to that,” she said pleasantly. “… I should now like to

put this woman on the stand that I have brought with me. Mrs. Euphemia

Larkin. She is really Inspector Rumsey’s witness, but he hasn’t had an

opportunity to talk to her. So if you will permit me I will question

her.”



“Certainly,” said the magistrate. “We are not sticklers for formality

here. All we want is to bring out the truth.”



Shryock arose with his disagreeable smile. Just the same the man was a

little worried. “Excuse me, your Honour, but it is five o’clock. I’m

sorry to have to mention it, but I have an important engagement…”



You could hear the whole room take a breath. They were afraid that the

curtain was going to be rung down just at the most exciting moment.

Well, his Honour was only human and he didn’t want to miss the

d�nouement either.



“Will it take long?” he asked Mme. Storey.



“Less than ten minutes, your Honour.”



“We will proceed.”



Mrs. Larkin was a typical New York Irish char woman, a racy specimen.

Still youngish and not at all bad-looking, she proudly displayed her

Sunday clothes on the witness stand. A little intimidated by finding

all eyes upon her, she was nevertheless enjoying her conspicuousness.



“What is your employment, Mrs. Larkin?” asked Mme. Storey.



“Cleaning woman in the Stilson Building on Forty-Second Street, ma’am.”



Mme. Storey opened the satchel she had brought and took from it two

square-sided quart bottles such as druggists use, a piece of wrapping

paper, a length of string and a pink ticket. “Do you recognise these

things?”



“Sure!” said Mrs. Larkin. “Them’s the things I give you in my rooms a

half-hour ago.”



“Where did you get them?”



“Picked ‘em out of the waste basket in room 1014 of my building.”



“You can swear that it was room 1014?”



“Sure! Them’s druggists’ bottles, and 1014 is a doctor’s office sort

of, with a laboratory and all.”



“When did you find them there?”



“Night before last at cleaning time.”



“You are sure of the time?”



“Absolutely. I mind taking them home with me.”



“What did you take them home for?”



“Well, bottles come in handy,” said Mrs. Larkin with a grin that set

the whole court roaring. “As for the paper I took that to wrap the

bottles in. They had come in that paper because the creases just

fitted. And the string.”



“How about this pink ticket?”



“That’s a sales ticket from the cut-price drug-store in the Stilson

Building. I pick up a lot of them in the waste baskets. If you save

them till you get a hundred dollars’ worth they give you a dollar

credit in the store.”



“Who is the tenant in room 1014?”



“Dr. A. Cushack.”



“Do you know him?”



“No’m. He’s always gone home before I do my work.”



“That’s all, thank you,” said Mme. Storey.



Mrs. Larkin stepped down, a little disappointed that her turn had been

so brief.



“If Dr. Cushack is willing to testify as to these bottles…” Mme.

Storey began politely.



He was already on his feet. “Sure!” he cried. “I want the court to

know what was in them!” He took the stand with a truculent air. The

word natty might have been coined to describe that little man. A day

in jail had rubbed none of the bloom off him. He pretended to be

swelling with indignation like a little turkey cock.



“You admit, then, that these were your bottles,” said Mme. Storey.



“I can’t identify them,” he said with a conceited laugh, “but if she

says she got them out of my waste basket it’s all right with me….

Tell the judge what was in them.”



“Each bottle contained X,” said Mme. Storey carelessly.



“Yeah, X!” he cried, thrusting out his chin at her. “I use it in my

lab. work. I couldn’t do anything without it. Everybody uses X for

one thing or another. Thousands of bottles are sold every day. Is

there any harm in X?”



“Why, no,” said Mme. Storey. “… But a little goes a long way. I was

just surprised that you used so much.”



“Oh, I don’t know how long I’ve had those bottles on hand.”



That was his first slip. “I know,” said Mme. Storey quietly. “You

bought them the same day.”



He stared at her speechlessly. She merely exhibited the sales slip.



“You can’t prove anything by that!” he cried. “They don’t enter the

items on the sales slips. Only the amounts.”



“Quite,” said Mme. Storey. “The bottles are each marked thirty-nine

cents. The slip is for seventy-eight.”



“That doesn’t prove anything. It’s only a coincidence. Half the

articles they sell are priced at thirty-nine cents.”



“Well, what else did you buy that day?” She glanced at the slip.

“February ninth.”



He was dumb.



Mme. Storey gave him a brief respite. It was her way with a witness.

“What’s your idea of this case?” she asked confidentially. “Was Ram

Lal poisoned?”



He rose to it immediately. “It’s an open question,” he said

importantly. “As a toxicologist I aspire to do a little investigating

myself when I get out. It’s an interesting case!”



She returned to the charge. “What did you do with two quarts of X the

day before yesterday?”



“I was conducting an experiment,” he answered warily.



“Of what nature?”



“I refuse to answer. I make my living out of my experiments.”



“No other drugs were found in your laboratory.”



“Well, I used everything up.”



“What did you do with the result of your experiment that day?”



“Poured it down the wash-basin. It was unsuccessful.”



“Then why not tell me what other drugs you used; where you got them and

so on.”



“Why should I?” he parried.



“Ever hear of distillate of X?” she asked casually.



Some of the pink faded out of his cheeks. “Yes,” he said. “Poisons

are my speciality.”



“You are familiar with its properties then?”



He hesitated briefly before answering. “I have read about it. Never

experimented with it.”



Mme. Storey started on another line. “Where did you go when…”



He interrupted her excitedly. “No, you don’t! I perceive what you’re

after! You can’t make an insinuation like that before the court

without following it up!”



“All right,” she said good-naturedly. “I’ll follow it up. Did you

make distillate of X in your laboratory the day before yesterday?”



“No!” he shouted. “It’s false!” He wiped his face.



“What time did you leave the office that day?” she asked.



“I don’t remember,” he said sullenly.



“Now come,” she said cajolingly; “only the day before yesterday.”



“About six,” he muttered.



“Where did you go?”



“Home.”



“By the way, where do you live? I don’t think I have been told.”



“Hotel Shirley.”



“Oh, the Shirley. Did anyone there see you come in?”



“I got my key from the desk as usual. It’s not likely the clerk could

remember that night amongst the others.”



“Where did you dine?”



“At the hotel.”



“Alone?”



“Yes.”



“Do you always occupy the same seat?”



“Yes.”



“With the same people more or less at the surrounding tables?”



He saw where these apparently innocent questions were tending, and

turned scared and stubborn. “I won’t answer!” he cried shrilly. “I

won’t answer any more. If you’re trying to pin this thing on me I

don’t have to answer!”



“Why, of course not!” said Mme. Storey with undisturbed good humour.

“You may step down.”



She then called the man she had brought with her, a lean young fellow

with a bright eye. His name was given as John Withy; his occupation,

freelance writer.



“Where do you live?” she asked.



“Number –- West Forty-Seventh Street.”



“What sort of building is that?”



“An old residence which has been rebuilt into stores, offices and small

apartments. It’s a walk-up building.”



“Where are your rooms?”



“I have a one-room and bath apartment third floor rear.”



“Have you ever before seen the man who last testified here, Dr.

Cushack?”



“Yes, ma’am. Saw him in my building day before yesterday. That was

Wednesday. About six-thirty p.m.”



“Under what circumstances?”



“Well, I was coming home to wash up for dinner and I found him standing

in the hall outside my door. Seemed funny, hanging around like that.

So I left my door open when I went in to sort of keep an eye on him.

My friend who lives in the front is out of town, and I thought maybe he

aimed to get in there. But another fellow came upstairs in a minute or

two, and it seemed this one was just waiting for him. The second

fellow was the man who rents the hall room next to mine. Alfred Somers

is the name in his letter-box downstairs.”



“Did you hear what they said to each other?” asked Mme. Storey.



“Just a word or two. Somers says: ‘Have you got it?’ and this man”—he

nodded in the direction of Dr. Cushack—“says: ‘Yeah.’ Somers says:

‘Come on in,’ and they went into his room. This sounded kind of

mysterious to me, and I wanted to hear more. There is an old door

between my room and Somers’ which is locked now and the cracks stuffed

with paper. I put my ear to the crack and I hear Somers say: ‘How can

I fix the wafer with this?’ And this man said: ‘Just pour a few drops

on it and let it soak in.’ That was all I could hear, and I thought

nothing of it at the time.”



“Mr. Withy,” said Mme. Storey with delicate impressiveness, “I want you

to look around this courtroom and see if you can pick out the man you

know as Alfred Somers.”



I jumped, her move was so absolutely unexpected. A breathless silence

fell on the courtroom as young Withy’s eyes passed from face to face.

It was apparent to all that this Somers must be the actual murderer of

Ram Lal.



Withy’s eyes travelled slowly along the front bench, came to Bunbury

and stopped there. “Why,” he said in a surprised voice, “why, that’s

the man!”



Court and spectators were held in a spell. Bunbury jumped up with a

face as grey as ashes; then dropped back in his seat laughing. From

the end of the bench Jim Shryock laughed loudly to create a diversion.

As for me, I was stony with astonishment.



Shryock was quickly on his feet. “Your Honour, I must protest!” he

cried. “This accusation is laughable, but is likely to do serious harm

to a faithful servant and an honest man! Why, Bunbury has been working

for Mrs. Julian for eight years. What possible motive…”



“I beg your pardon,” interrupted Mme. Storey with a wicked smile, “are

you representing Bunbury too?”



She had him there, but he didn’t care so long as there was no jury

present. “No!” he cried theatrically. “My words are dictated by

motives of humanity.”



She enjoyed a little private laugh at the notion that Jim Shryock had

taken a case out of humanity.



“Mr. Bunbury, may I have the privilege of representing you here?” asked

Shryock with a bow.



“Please do,” mumbled the butler. He was a wretched figure then.



“Then I ask again,” shouted Shryock, “what possible motive could this

man have had for committing such a crime?”



“This is only a preliminary hearing,” said Mme. Storey, “and it’s not

necessary to try the whole case. However, I am perfectly willing to

give you the information. It is true that Bunbury has been working for

Mrs. Julian for eight years. During that time a whole procession of

fakers and charlatans has succeeded in wheedling great sums of money

out of his mistress. Naturally, it made him sore to see all that going

out of the house. He began to wonder if he couldn’t divert the golden

stream in his own direction. The knowledge of Mrs. Julian’s character

that he had gained, and his familiarity with every detail of her life

and affairs gave him a special advantage. Naturally, he couldn’t

swindle her in his own person, so he engaged catspaws as they came

along, Mrs. Bracker, Dr. Cushack, Ram Lal, and taught them how to do

it.”



“We have only your word for this, Madame,” said Shryock sarcastically.

“And you still haven’t answered my question. If Ram Lal was Bunbury’s

own man, why in heaven’s name should he murder him?”



“Because Ram Lal held out on him,” said Mme. Storey sweetly. “It was

partly out of revenge, and partly as an object lesson to the other

faithful workers. Mrs. Julian has furnished me with a list of all the

sums she has given these three people with the dates. On the other

hand my operatives have secured lists of Bunbury’s deposits in his

several bank accounts.



“These lists will be offered in evidence, of course, and we will show

that for every payment made by Mrs. Julian, Bunbury deposited half the

amount next day. With one exception. Mrs. Julian gave Ram Lal one

hundred thousand dollars two weeks ago. Bunbury got none of that.”



Shryock shrugged elaborately. It was all he could do. “Well, when I

see your evidence,” he said with a sneer, “I’ll meet it.”



“It is sufficient,” said Magistrate McManigal. “I will hold these two

persons as accessories before the fact. Inspector, I presume you will

take care of Bunbury.”



“I will, your Honour,” said Rumsey grimly.



Bunbury had already recovered himself by the time they came to lead him

out. He was a very remarkable man. His vanity was hurt by the

recollection of that moment of weakness, and he was bound to make a

good exit. He walked to where Mrs. Julian sat, and made a low bow.



“My keys, Madam,” he said, handing them over: “I trust you will find

everything in order at home.”



Mrs. Julian was too much overcome to say a word.



Bunbury then faced the policeman who was ready to attend him. “Keep

your hands off me,” he said with dignity. “I shall make no

resistance.” He then walked out with the air of a martyr going proudly

to the stake. If it had been in the theatre he would certainly have

got a big hand.





IX


Mme. Storey, Inspector Rumsey and I had dinner in a little Italian

restaurant on Fifty-Second Street where the spaghetti with anchovies is

something to dream about. We all felt the blessed sense of relaxation

that follows on the completion of a tough bit of work. It was fun to

hold a sort of post-mortem on the case.



Mme. Storey said: “The first thing that struck me was that Ram Lal was

a stupid fellow playing a clever part. Particularly after I got his

history from the police. Before the Ram Lal episode he was nothing but

a sneak thief, the lowest order of crooks. This suggested that he must

have been drilled in the art of crystal-gazing. His whole spiel

sounded like something learned by rote.



“When I watched Mrs. Bracker and Cushack and read the transcript of

their examination by the police I saw that they also were much too

stupid to have thought up the parts they were playing—both parts, by

the way, devilishly well calculated to deceive a woman of Mrs. Julian’s

character. There was a certain affinity too, in all these games. This

put the idea into my head that there was a superior intelligence

directing all three of them.”



“When did you begin to suspect Bunbury?” I asked.



“Just as soon as I decided there was a master mind behind the three

puppets, my intuition suggested that it was Bunbury. Many little

straws pointed in that direction. Bunbury was the only person who

possessed the requisite knowledge of Mrs. Julian’s character. Believe

me, nothing can be hidden from our servants! Then I learned from Mrs.

Julian that Bunbury had been instrumental in getting the previous lot

of fakers fired. All except Liptrott, whom he probably regarded as

harmless. And for one brief moment in the boudoir I had a glimpse of

the power that underlay the butler’s smooth mask. He quelled Cushack

and Mrs. Bracker with a word…. But on the whole it was chiefly a

question of style.”



“Style?” we echoed.



“Style is a mysterious thing,” she went on. “You can’t describe it,

but you can feel it. You have noticed I suppose, that Bunbury talks in

a style of false elegance. Upper servants are much given to it.

‘Elegant,’ by the way, is one of the words that are frequently on his

lips. Few use it nowadays.



“Well, in Ram Lal, in Mrs. Bracker and in Dr. Cushack I kept hearing

echoes of Bunbury’s style. It is largely in the use to which words are

put. Besides ‘elegant’ notice how every one of them says ‘perceive,’ a

book word, when he means ‘see.’ And the word ‘aspire,’ generally used

in an incorrect sense, is continually on their lips. Besides others.

When pupils are taught by rote the master’s voice may be clearly heard.



“It is obvious that master minds do not work for nothing, and when I

checked up what Mrs. Julian had paid out with what Bunbury had

received, the motive for the crime became obvious. Ram Lal was too

successful. He felt that he had become independent of his master. He

had defied the master, and so he had to be made to feel his power.”



“But,” I objected, “if it was Bunbury who warned us, when we got to the

house he tried to keep us out of the boudoir!”



“Think back, Bella,” she said with a smile. “The objections he raised

were of a sort to make us determined to enter! … It is one thing to

know who committed a crime and another to produce sufficient evidence

to obtain a conviction,” she went on. “The men I assigned to watch

Mrs. Julian’s house followed Bunbury to his room on Forty-Seventh

Street, and so we discovered where he was accustomed to meet and

instruct his accomplices. His Academy of Faking you might call it.

But by the time they could get inside he had made a clean sweep of

everything in the nature of evidence, of course. Bunbury made no such

clumsy mistake as Cushack who threw the bottles in his waste basket.



“I questioned a dozen people in the house before I turned up ore in the

person of Withy. However, the word ‘wafer’ which Withy overheard had

no significance until after I had tricked Mrs. Bracker into testifying

that Ram Lal had taken a wafer. Then it took on a deadly effect. When

one of these watertight crimes once springs a leak, it is all over.”



“It’s lucky for the sake of justice that Bunbury telephoned you that

day,” remarked Rumsey.



“Yes, that was his weakness,” said Mme. Storey. “Like all criminals of

his type, Bunbury is devoured by a secret vanity. The result of too

many years’ suppression as a butler perhaps. When his plot was all

ready to shoot he was so crazy about it, it looked so absolutely

detection proof, that he couldn’t bear to let it work unseen. So he

gave me a ring. It was obviously an afterthought because his

associates were not informed of it. And he might have got away with

it, too, had it not been for his fatal style!”

======================================================================

Taken for a Ride





I


The seats sent to Madame Storey and I were in row S about half-way back

in the immense auditorium; the opera was Siegfried. The Terwilliger

box was still unoccupied when the curtain went up, and I had to possess

my soul in patience during the long first act, which was played to a

completely darkened house. I was so excited I could give less than

half my attention to the music. Owing to the prominence of the persons

concerned, our new case bade fair to be one of the biggest things Mme.

Storey had ever undertaken. Terwilliger is a name to conjure with all

over the world. The Terwilligers are our Rothschilds.



The moment the lights went up I turned my head over my shoulder. The

Terwilliger box is in the centre of the golden horseshoe; that is to

say, where the royal box would be if this did not happen to be a

republic. The party had come. In the right-hand corner I recognised

the effulgent Mrs. Terwilliger in green velvet and diamonds, but the

other two ladies were strangers to me. Neither could I identify the

three gentlemen in the obscurity of the back of the box. I speculated

vainly upon which might be Dr. Felix Portal, head of the Terwilliger

Institute, and an even more famous man, if that is possible, than his

wealthy patron. It was Dr. Portal who was responsible for our presence

in the opera house that night.



We did not immediately leave our seats for the intermission, since we

had no wish to advertise our presence generally in the foyer. We

waited until people were beginning to drift back down the aisles before

we got up and mixed with the gossiping, cigarette-smoking throng

outside. When the bell rang to give warning of the second act we

scurried along like everybody else, and so contrived it that the rising

of the curtain found us in the secluded corridor back of the parterre

boxes. It was quickly emptied of all save ourselves. When we were

satisfied nobody was observing us, we opened the door leading into the

Terwilliger box.



The door does not lead directly into the box but into a charming little

ante-room furnished like the rest of the magnificent old building in

red and gold. There were dainty little sofas and chairs with curved

legs as in a boudoir. We were separated from the box proper by heavy

velvet curtains which are kept closely drawn during the performance.

As we entered, the curtains parted and a man whom I knew must be Dr.

Portal joined us with a polite smile.



As in the case of most great men one’s first impression was

disappointing. He was a small man, and instead of the noble and

venerable head I expected, I beheld a somewhat sharp physiognomy with a

long nose and a retreating forehead. But I had not been a moment in

his company before the real distinction of the man became apparent. I

observed that the back part of his head was fine and full, and that,

they say, holds the really important part of the brain. He had a noble

eye, too, blue and gleaming with an inward fire. It had the curiously

remote glance of one who dwells mostly in the realm of thought. It

expressed an attractive compound of wisdom and innocence. His voice

too, had the measured quality of one who thinks before he speaks. Oh,

there was no doubt that he was one of the exceptional men of our time.



Outside, the auditorium had been darkened again and the violins were

making the whole house throb with feeling. It provided a strange

accompaniment to the interview which followed. There was a deprecating

quality in Dr. Portal’s smile that was very winning, considering what a

great man he was. In other words, he was a little in awe of the

beautiful Madame Storey.



“So good of you to respond to my appeal for aid!” he murmured.



“Not at all,” she answered quickly. “I feel flattered in receiving an

appeal from you.” And she meant it. She brought me up. “My

secretary, Miss Brickley. I want her to take notes of what you tell

me, so that I won’t have to waste your time by asking you to repeat any

of it later.”



We sat down, Mme. Storey and Dr. Portal side by side on a little sofa,

and me facing them with my notebook on my knee. Once the courteous

greetings had been exchanged, deep harassed lines appeared in the

famous scientist’s face. Whatever this business might be, clearly it

was no joke to him. He showed a curious petulance also, as if the

scientist in him resented being dragged down from the calm realms of

thought.



“You will think the manner of this appointment very strange,” he said.

“The truth is, I find myself followed and watched wherever I go, and I

wished to keep it a secret, at least for the present, that I was

consulting you.”



“You did right,” said Mme. Storey. “Please go on.”



The voice of the young Siegfried was now ringing through the house,

supported by the murmuring violins. It lent an almost unbearably

emotional effect to the doctor’s tale of murder.



“It concerns the shocking accident which happened at the Institute a

month ago,” he began. “My principal assistant, Dr. Edgar McComb, was

found shot dead in his office. I suppose you read of it at the time.

It has attracted very little notice simply because there were no

sensational circumstances to whet the public appetite. Now that a

month has passed it remains just as much of a mystery as it was on the

morning the body was discovered. The police pretend to be working upon

the case still, but they have nothing to go on. No clues of any sort.

Nobody saw the assailant enter or leave the building; no fingerprints

were found in the room save those of the doctor himself. And what is

even more baffling, no possible motive for the crime has been

unearthed. Dr. McComb had no enemies; no difficulties either financial

or amatory. He was happily married, and his private life was a model

of regularity. Some have thought it must have been the chance act of a

madman, but that theory won’t hold water either; because the doctor

must have made an appointment to meet his assailant in the laboratory

that night, and must have admitted him to the building. What is more,

they were heard talking quietly together shortly before the shot must

have been fired.”



“Who heard them talking?” asked Mme. Storey.



“The night watchman, Amadeo Corioli. In making his rounds through the

bacteriological laboratory at ten o’clock he saw a light in Dr.

McComb’s office, and heard the sound of quiet voices as he passed the

closed door. An hour later, when he passed, the light was out, and he

supposed the doctor had gone home. Either Dr. McComb or I or both of

us often worked in the laboratory until late. The body was discovered

by the cleaning women in the morning.”



“But a month has passed, doctor,” said Mme. Storey reproachfully.

“What can I hope to do with so cold a trail?… Why didn’t you consult

me sooner?”



“Ah, I wish I had! I wish I had!” he said with a painful gesture.

“But to tell you the truth, it never came close to me until a few days

ago. I was content to leave it to the police.”



“Never came close to you?” said my employer. “What do you mean by

that?”



He answered her indirectly. His agitation was visibly increasing.

“True, the morning after the tragedy,” he said, “Mrs. McComb, who was

in a highly hysterical state, accused me in veiled terms of being

responsible for her husband’s death. I was inexpressibly shocked by

the scene, but naturally I ascribed it to her condition. I never gave

it a moment’s thought until two or three days ago when I noticed that I

was being watched and followed. It was a strange experience for me to

have! … Then I began to perceive that the attitude of those who

surround me at the Institute had changed subtly. Something ugly had

come into their regard.” The speaker shuddered. “Ugh! it was

horrible! Finally I demanded an explanation from one of the young

doctors in whom I have confidence. He told me…” For the moment Mr.

Portal seemed to be unable to continue. “He told me,” he said

brokenly, “that a story was going around that I, actuated by a mean

jealousy of a brilliant rising man, had procured the death of Edgar

McComb!”



Mme. Storey and I gazed at him incredulously. It seemed impossible to

believe that one whom the whole world looked upon as the high priest of

science should be mixed up in anything like this!



In his agitation Dr. Portal sprang up and struck his clenched hands

against his breast. Fortunately the swelling music drowned the sound

of his voice. “Me! Me!” he cried; “accused of murder! Me, whose life

has been as open as the day! Whose every thought has been given to my

work! Is it not unjust? Is it not incredible that such a story should

be circulated and believed? My informant said that he didn’t believe

it, but that there was no chance of stopping it now!”



“They circulate it, but I doubt if they believe it,” said Mme. Storey

gravely. “It is a common human failing.”



“But how terrible … how terrible to be the victim of such a slander!”

cried Dr. Portal brokenly. “It has completely unnerved me! It comes

between me and my work. I can do nothing! And my work has reached a

fatally critical point where every ounce of ability that I possess is

required of me. The polio serum…”



“What is polio?” asked Mme. Storey quickly.



“Ah, pardon!” he said, with a distracted gesture. “A bit of laboratory

slang. Polio is short for poliomyelitis or infantile paralysis. I

have been working on it for many years. I have not yet succeeded in

isolating the bacillus, but I have prepared a serum from the blood of

immune monkeys which, in the case of monkeys anyhow, arrests the

paralysis. I am not quite ready for human experiments, but I soon will

be—if I am only left in peace! … Meanwhile the number of cases is

daily increasing. Everything points to a coming epidemic. There is

not a day to lose!”



Mme. Storey, too, had risen. She had instantly made up her mind as to

the rights of this case. “How proud I will be if I can contribute to

your work by ever so little!” she said, impulsively taking his hand.

“I beg of you to put this preposterous slander out of your mind, and

return to your work. Leave this to me. I promise you if I live I will

lay it in its grave for ever!”



The doctor, as a man will, immediately began to make light of his own

emotion. “There … there,” he said, shaking her hand, “my mind is

relieved already. I feel safe in your hands. As for the expenses

connected with this affair…”



“Not a word as to that,” she said, holding up her hand. “That’s my

part…. All you have to do is to answer a few questions…. Where

were you on the night Dr. McComb was shot?”



“Fortunately I can produce an alibi,” he answered with a wry smile. “I

attended a reception at the National History Museum to visiting British

scientists. Hundreds of people must have seen me there…. However,”

he went on bitterly, “I understand that I am not accused of firing the

shot myself. They believe that I had it done.”



“What exactly did Mrs. McComb say to you on the morning after?”



“She said: ‘This is your work! This is your work! Now I hope you’re

satisfied! For years you have been trying to keep him down, and when

you found you could no longer do so you turned to this!’ And much

more to the same effect. No precise charge.”



“Hm! jealousy,” remarked Mme. Storey.



“Oh, yes, that had often peeped out,” said Dr. Portal. “Such a pity!

So unnecessary!”



“What sort of woman is Mrs. McComb?”



“A good enough sort as women go,” answered Dr. Portal carelessly.

“Highly conventional. Ambitious. On that account I considered her

influence over her husband unfortunate. A scientist cannot afford to

consider ambition; he cannot consider anything in the world but

science!”



“You have not much use for women, I take it, doctor,” suggested Mme.

Storey with a dry smile.



“Oh, I wouldn’t say that,” he protested. “Have I not put myself in

your hands? … The only thing I have against women is that they demand

too much time. For me life is not long enough to include both science

and women.”



“It is a pity,” murmured Mme. Storey. “Where is Mrs. McComb now?”



“She has gone abroad. I believe Mrs. Terwilliger sent her.”



“Ah! a mistake in tactics. Perhaps we will have to bring her back….

Now tell me what you can about the crime, doctor.”



“That is next to nothing,” he said, spreading out his hands.



“You have spoken of the bacteriological laboratory. What sort of a

place is it?”



“It is a small separate building connected with a main group by a

covered passage. Dr. McComb and I have been working there exclusively

during the past year. The monkeys that we use in our experiments are

kept on the top floor. Some of them are sick, you see, and there is a

male nurse on duty throughout the night just as if they were human.

Dr. McComb’s private office and my office were on the floor below.”



“The nurse heard no sound?”



“No, Madame. The walls are thick.”



“Describe the finding of the body.”



“It was found by a cleaning woman at eight o’clock on the morning of

November 9th. When she opened the door she saw the doctor slumped down

in his chair with a bullet-hole in his forehead. His body was already

stiff. He had evidently been shot from in front as he sat upright in

his chair. The bullet had gone completely through his head and had

lodged in the hard plaster of the wall behind him. A curious thing

was, that the murderer had gone to the trouble to dig it out of the

plaster and carry it away with him.”



“Nothing strange in that,” remarked Mme. Storey. “He had evidently

heard of the new science of ballistics which enables us sometimes to

trace the bullet back to the gun from which it was fired.”



“Another strange feature,” Dr. Portal went on, “is that the body was

stripped of every trifling article of value; a seal ring, a cheap watch

and a dollar or two in money, which was the most the doctor ever

carried. It seems incredible that a man should be murdered for that.”



Mme. Storey made no comment.



“Moreover,” said the doctor, “the unfortunate man must have made an

appointment to meet the murderer in the laboratory, for there was no

work to call him back that night. We had discussed it in the

afternoon. And he must have let the man in himself. Why should he

have made an appointment with a robber?”



“Obviously robbery was not the murderer’s main object,” said Mme.

Storey. “But having killed his man, he saw no reason why he should

overlook any little objects of value. From that I infer the shot was

fired by a professional criminal.”



“Now I call that clever!” said Dr. Portal admiringly. “Already we are

making progress.”



“But we have a long, long way to go,” said Mme. Storey, smiling. “How

about the Italian watchman?”



“He has been repeatedly questioned by the police. No suspicion

attaches to him, I understand. He can account for every minute of his

time that night by the time clocks he is obliged to punch as he makes

his rounds through the buildings.”



“But it only takes a fraction of a second to shoot a man,” Mme. Storey

pointed out.



“What object would he have? He knew Dr. McComb carried nothing of

value upon him?”



“I don’t know,” said Mme. Storey frankly. “Have you any theory as to

what happened?”



“None whatever,” said Dr. Portal, spreading out his hands. “All I can

tell you is, that McComb appeared to me to be in a highly nervous state

during the last days of his life. But I have no idea what was

troubling him.”



Mme. Storey and I left the opera house in a curious state of exaltation

induced by the insinuating violins and the poignant tenor voice. I

felt (and Mme. Storey confessed the same) that we were like two

crusaders sallying forth to do battle for the benefactor of mankind

against the powers of evil.





II


We proceeded directly to my employer’s little house on East Sixty –-

Street. It was still something short of ten o’clock, and Mme. Storey

telephoned immediately to Inspector Rumsey. Upon being assured that

the matter was of first-rate importance, the Inspector said he would

motor right down to join us.



Inspector Rumsey glanced at Mme. Storey with pleasure when he came in.

He is a little man of quite undistinguished appearance whose whole

study it is to render himself still more inconspicuous. Ordinarily his

face is as inscrutable as one of the little crooks whom it is his

business to track down, but in my employer’s presence he relaxes and

becomes quite human. He is a first-class police official and

absolutely incorruptible.



Mme. Storey went directly to the point. “Are you keeping Dr. Felix

Portal under surveillance?”



“I am,” he answered unhesitatingly.



“Why?”



“Well,” he said deprecatingly, “I received an anonymous letter

suggesting that he was responsible for the death of Edgar McComb.”



“An anonymous letter!” said Mme. Storey disgustedly.



“Sure,” he said calmly; “I despise them as much as you do. But in a

case of this sort where I was absolutely up against it I could not

afford to ignore it. The letter was typewritten on a sheet of cheap

paper, and it had been mailed in the corridor of the general post

office. I have been unable to trace it.”



“What did it say?”



“It said: ‘The story is going around that Dr. Portal did for Dr.

McComb. You had better look into it.’ … How did you become

interested in the case, if I may ask?”



“Between ourselves,” said Mme. Storey, “Dr. Portal has consulted me.”



“You mean he has engaged you to solve this mystery?”



“Yes.”



“Well, that was a bold move!”



“If he is guilty it would be. But surely you do not think that he…”



“I have no opinion,” said Inspector Rumsey, spreading out his hands.

“All my investigation has shown is that he might have done it.”



“But, good heavens!” cried Mme. Storey, sitting upright, “why should he

have done it?”



“Professional jealousy,” suggested the Inspector. “Dr. McComb, a much

younger man, had been making great strides lately. His name was

continually in the newspapers.”



“But Dr. Portal is not the man to care about that,” said Mme. Storey.

“Look you, for fifteen years he’s been at the head of the Terwilliger

Institute and one of the most conspicuous citizens of New York. Yet

one almost never meets him at public functions. And in all those years

I have never seen a published photograph of him. I did not know him

tonight until he introduced himself. Is that the record of a man who

is keen about newspaper publicity?”



Inspector Rumsey did not answer.



“It is sacrilege to think a man like that in connection with a sordid

murder!” Mme. Storey went on earnestly. “I should say if there is

one disinterested man in this world of money-grubbers that man was

Felix Portal!”



“Even so,” said the Inspector with quiet obstinacy, “everybody knows

that the higher the flights a man is capable of, the lower he may fall.

The whole history of crime testifies to it.”



“You have several children, haven’t you?” said Mme. Storey, suddenly

taking a new line. “What are their ages?”



“The youngest is three and the oldest eleven,” said the Inspector with

a smile.



“All within the danger limits for infantile paralysis,” she murmured.



“Don’t speak of it!” he said with a painful gesture. “It’s a

nightmare!”



“They say we are headed straight for an epidemic.”



“It’s horrible!” cried the Inspector. “A man is so helpless! When I

see it coming I wish I could send them all up on a mountain top where

they could be cut off from everybody!”



“That’s what Dr. Portal is working on now,” said Mme. Storey quietly;

“working to save your children, all the children. He had almost

attained success when this…”



Inspector Rumsey fairly groaned in his distress. “I’ve got to do my

duty. I had hoped that he would never hear this story. Never discover

that he was being watched.”



“Well, he knows it now,” she said gravely, “and his work is at a

standstill…. You say he might have done it,” she presently went

on, “but he says he was at the Natural History Museum all evening where

hundreds of people saw him.”



“That is true and not true,” said the Inspector. “He made a speech of

welcome at nine o’clock and of course everybody in the building saw and

heard him. But after he stepped down from the platform at nine-twenty,

I am unable to find anybody who saw him until supper was served at

eleven.”



“That is no proof that he wasn’t there.”



“No, but unfortunately I have learned that a taxicab was called to the

museum at nine-thirty, and that a man was driven from there to the

corner of Avenue A and Seventy-Fourth Street, which, as you know, is

just around the corner from the Institute. Well, if he could taxi over

there he could taxi back, of course, in plenty of time for supper.”



“Did this passenger resemble Dr. Portal?” Mme. Storey asked anxiously.



“Ah, there we are up against it again. The driver of that taxi has

left his job, and I have not been able to find him.”



“Pretty slim evidence,” suggested Mme. Storey.



“Surely,” he agreed. “But in the face of it, how can I give up

watching Dr. Portal.”



“Well, now the situation is somewhat altered,” she said. “Dr. Portal

has engaged me to solve this mystery. That’s pretty strong evidence of

his good faith in the matter. If I assure you that I mean to devote my

whole time to the case, are you willing to call off your dogs? You and

I will still be working together, of course.”



“Sure,” cried the Inspector heartily. “And darn glad of the excuse to

let up on the doctor!”



They shook hands on it.



“Now tell me all you know about the case,” said Mme. Storey, lighting a

fresh cigarette.



It required a full hour for the Inspector to relate all the work he and

his men had done. I shall not weary you with the recital, for there

was little of it that proved to be of any service to us. Nothing in

Dr. McComb’s past life, nor in Dr. Portal’s either, threw any light on

the crime. In an association of five years they had never been known

to quarrel, or even to have a serious difference of any kind. The only

thing in the way of complete harmony was Dr. McComb’s ambition—and

that was mostly Mrs. McComb’s.



As a matter of fact Mme. Storey had to begin from the beginning. It

was a single word dropped by Inspector Rumsey which gave her her lead.

In one of the gossiping stories patiently run down by the police, a

young interne of the Institute had used the phrase: “As it was told to

me, Dr. Portal hired a gunman to put McComb out of the way.” This yarn

was traced back to Mrs. McComb; but when the police questioned her she

denied having said it. In fact she denied ever having charged that Dr.

Portal was responsible for her husband’s death. This was manifestly a

falsehood. It was no doubt the Terwilligers who, with the best

intentions, had shut the woman up. Mrs. McComb was the kind of woman

who would be very much in awe of multi-millionaires.



“At any rate,” said Mme. Storey, “‘gunman’ is our line.”



“I have not neglected that line,” said the Inspector. “The possible

hired killers are pretty well known to us. Well, every man of that

sort has been able to account for his actions on the night of November

8th.”



“But there are always new killers coming up,” suggested Mme. Storey.



“Sure,” said the Inspector gloomily, “there are always youngsters who

are crazy for a chance to qualify in that class. It is looked upon as

the head of the criminal profession.”



“Then we will assume,” she said, “that this was a first killing by a

man who had already served an apprenticeship in lesser crimes.”



“But it was Dr. Portal who was said to have hired the gunman,” said the

Inspector, frowning.



“Well, maybe he did,” said Mme. Storey airily. “In any case it

provides us with a starting point.”





III


Before we went to bed that night we made an appointment with Dr. Portal

to come to his laboratory next day. What she had learned made it

necessary for her to have another talk with him, Mme. Storey told him.

After that she did not expect to trouble him again until she had

arrested her man. She insisted that there was no need for secrecy now,

and in fact she advised him to tell his associates that he had engaged

her to clear him from the absurd scandal that had clouded his name.

“Let the matter be dragged out into the open,” she said.



The great Terwilliger Institute, as everybody knows, stands in its own

fine park on the bank of the East River. I should very much have liked

to have gone over the whole place, but there was no time for that. We

confined our attention to the bacteriological laboratory, which was for

the time being entirely devoted to the researches of Dr. Portal and his

assistants. The ground floor was given up to an immense general

laboratory with apparatus of every description; the second floor was

divided into special laboratories and offices, while the third floor

housed the monkeys and other animals used in their work. I did not go

up there.



The three of us were in his private room, an office rather than a

laboratory, bare and speckless as a hospital ward. Mme. Storey said

lightly:



“Among the different versions of the story which have been going the

rounds, there was one to the effect that you hired a gunman to do the

deed.”



“How absurd!” said the doctor, half-amused, half-angry. “How on earth

would I set about to hire a gunman?”



“Have you never known a man of that sort?” asked Mme. Storey carelessly.



Dr. Portal suddenly checked himself. “Why … why, yes I did,” he said

blankly. “How strange! It happened just a little while before the

tragedy…. It never occurred to me there might be a connection

between the two…. Why, there couldn’t have been!”



“Nevertheless, tell me about it,” said Mme. Storey.



Dr. Portal looked out of the window. His gaze became still more remote

as he called up the past scene. “When you have been concentrating on a

difficult problem for many hours—or days,” he began slowly, “there

comes a moment when the brain seems to slip its cogs, and you become

conscious of a great weariness. It is a sort of warning signal, I

suppose, and I always heed it at once. Generally I take a little walk

in the grounds. Sometimes just a few minutes’ relaxation is enough to

restore me.”



“I expect this habit of yours is well known,” suggested Mme. Storey.



“No doubt. No doubt,” he said. “There are certain individuals of the

neighbourhood with whom I have become quite well acquainted through

meeting them in the grounds. When I came here years ago the grounds

were closed to the public, but I persuaded my patrons to open them. It

is a crowded neighbourhood and there are too few parks. Moreover, I

like to walk about and watch the people, and talk to them. But I have

not always the courage to open a conversation. You will think it very

silly, I am sure, at my age to be so diffident. I am glad when anybody

speaks to me.”



“I can understand that,” murmured Mme. Storey.



He glanced at her gratefully. “I lead too solitary a life, having no

family,” he went on. “I get up in the morning and go to work. Most

days I work until it is time to go home and go to bed again. I have

myself pretty well disciplined—but not completely disciplined. There

is something in me that sometimes rebels against this dryness,

something that longs for colour and drama in life. I tell you this in

order to explain what happened.”



Mme. Storey nodded.



“One sunny afternoon,” he went on; “it was just a few days before the

catastrophe here; let me see, the following day was a Saturday; that

would be two Saturdays before the tragedy, October 30th; I was sitting

on a bench in the grounds throwing bread crumbs to the sparrows when a

young fellow came along and sat down on the other end of the bench. I

was immediately and strongly attracted to him….”



“Why?” asked Mme. Storey.



“Well … I suppose it was the attraction of opposites. He was the

exact antithesis of what I had been as a young fellow. He existed

purely on the physical plane, one would say. A superb physical

specimen; comely, vigorous and alert. He was very well dressed in a

somewhat flashy style. I was surprised at his interest in me, for such

a one naturally has little use for an old fogey of a scientist. From

his handsome dark eyes and smooth, firm, dusky skin I put him down as

an Italian, and as a matter of fact he told me later that his name was

Tito Tolentino….”



“A mellifluous moniker,” put in Mme. Storey with a dry smile; “probably

assumed for the occasion.”



“No doubt,” said Dr. Portal. “Indeed, when we became better acquainted

he confessed that he went under many names. An amazing tale.”



“Don’t skip any of it,” warned Mme. Storey.



“He was a mere lad,” the doctor went on, “not more than nineteen I

should say, but he had an uncanny air of experience and assurance. I

am rather alarmed in the presence of hard-boiled youths, but on this

occasion I wasn’t required to make any overtures, for he immediately

started talking to me. With his uncanny sharpness he perceived that I

was diffident, and laid himself out to put me at my ease, just as if he

had been the elderly man of the world and I the gawky stripling.”



Mme. Storey and I smiled at the picture this called up—the great

scientist and the gunman! “What did he talk about?” asked my employer.



“It was about the sparrows at first. How they must have recognised

that I had a good nature since they came right to my feet. Then he

went on to tell me about himself; how he was the sole support of his

widowed mother and small brothers and sisters; how he worked in a

printing shop all night, slept in the mornings and came out in the

afternoons for a breath of air. All this was delivered in a snuffling,

self-righteous kind of voice. I suppose he thought this was the proper

way to recommend himself to me; but it only made me uncomfortable—it

was so false, so out of character with the flashy clothes and the hard,

handsome, predatory eyes that searched me through and through while he

snuffled.”



“He knew who you were?” suggested Mme. Storey.



“Yes; it did not occur to me then, but he must have known. From the

first, I remember, he addressed me as ‘Doctor’; he knew I was the head

of this institution.”



“Go on, please.”



“In the end he perceived, I suppose, that I didn’t believe a word of

his self-righteous story. With that unnatural penetration of his he

saw that the way to win me was by confessing his sins. At any rate he

suddenly changed his tone. ‘Aah, that’s all baloney,’ he said with a

laugh. ‘The truth is, I’m a bad egg, doctor. I shook my folks long

ago. I play a lone hand. Never did an honest day’s work in me life!’

My heart warmed to him when he said this. It cleared the air. We got

along famously after that.”



Dr. Portal paused with his attractive smile, so shy and wise. He may

have been innocent of the ways of the world, but he was nobody’s fool.

Always ready to smile at himself.



“How can I convey to you the extraordinary effect his story had on me?”

he presently went on. “It laid a spell on my imagination. It was the

first time in my life that I had ever come into contact with

lawlessness, and all the starved lawlessness in my own nature leaped to

meet it. Already at nineteen this lad had quaffed life to the dregs,

whereas at fifty-nine I had not even tasted it! I felt a kind of shame

for my wasted opportunities.”



Mme. Storey did not miss the irony in this. They laughed together.



“Of course it was only a mood,” he said; “the result of too many

suppressions. If I had a son I would say to him: ‘Don’t be too good

when you’re young, or the devil will get you later!’”



“I suppose women played a considerable part in his story,” she

suggested.



Dr. Portal held up his hands expressively. “Amazing! Amazing!” he

murmured. “An incredible point of view! Such a complete absence of

inhibitions! Such coolness and matter-of-factness! Apparently when

Tolentino saw anything that pleased him he just reached out and took

it, as one might help oneself to a peach from a dish! Of course he had

been very much favoured by nature for this pursuit. Such a handsome

little blackguard! The things he told me took my breath away. Girls

everywhere; all kinds of girls; even girls of position, society girls.

He used to pick them up at afternoon tea dances. ‘They like a fella to

be bad,’ he said with his sly grin.” The doctor shook his head

mournfully.



“What was the upshot of this remarkable conversation?” asked Mme.

Storey.



“The upshot was,” said Dr. Portal, “that I came to myself with a start

to find that the sun was going down and that I was thoroughly chilled.

When I got up to leave, my new friend suggested that we ought to meet

again, and I eagerly agreed. I was still under his spell. He said as

long as I was interested in that side of life, he’d like to take me

around town and show me some places, and we agreed to meet at six the

next evening at the Queensboro Bridge entrance. I chose a distant

point because I was none too anxious to have my associates at the

Institute see the kind of company I was mixing with. He promised to

have a car.”



“Good heavens!” cried Mme. Storey, “after all you had been told were

you not afraid to trust yourself in his hands?”



Dr. Portal looked at her in surprise. “Why, no,” he said. “The idea

of danger to myself never crossed my mind. Who would want to injure

me?”



Mme. Storey smiled at him somewhat grimly. “And you went?”



“Certainly, I went,” he said, “and had one of the most interesting

evenings I have ever spent … though I got a little tight,” he added

deprecatingly.



“Well, I expect that was good for you,” said Mme. Storey.



“Yes,” he agreed innocently. “I tackled my work with fresh energy next

day.”



“Well, tell us all about it.”



“Unfortunately my sense of direction is poor, and I cannot describe

just where he took me,” said Dr. Portal. “One turned innumerable

corners and pulled up in front of one door after another. I never knew

where we were.”



“What kind of car was it?” asked Mme. Storey.



“A little sedan, quite new, but I didn’t notice of what make.”



“Oh, well, it hardly signifies. It was undoubtedly stolen for the

occasion and abandoned at the end of the evening. Go on, doctor.”



“First we drove far down town into the crowded East side. We went into

a basement restaurant there. It had no lights nor sign outside, but it

was quite a large place and well filled. There was a little space for

dancing in the middle. We ate our dinner there, and Tito pointed out

all the celebrities of the place. There was a woman—I forget her

name—who had been tried for the murder of her husband so many times,

the jury disagreeing on each occasion, that finally the District

Attorney had become discouraged, and she was allowed to go free, though

everybody knew she had done it. Then there was Monk Eyster, the famous

gang leader, and many other notorious criminals whose names were

strange to me. It was a thrilling experience for me.”



“Did these people appear to know your companion?” asked Mme. Storey.



“No. Nobody spoke to us.”



“Naturally, he wouldn’t have dared take you to any place where he was

known. Go on.”



“Afterwards we went to a sort of club on the second storey of a

building. There were only men in this place. It was the headquarters

of the stick-up fraternity, Tito said, and while we knocked the balls

around a pool table, he told me who the different men were, and

described their hair-raising exploits. Everyone was wanted by the

police.”



Mme. Storey smiled at him indulgently. “Did anybody speak to your

friend here?”



“No.”



“Humph!” she said, “he probably made up the story out of whole cloth.”



“Perhaps,” said Dr. Portal a little ruefully, “but it was very exciting

at the time…. Afterwards he said he knew of a roadhouse up in

Westchester County that was the worst place of all. Everything went

there, he said, and nothing went any farther. But I would be all

right, he said, as long as he was with me…. So we drove for a long

time in the little car. It must have been somewhere north of the city,

because I remember crossing the Harlem River, and passing through the

suburb of Williamsbridge. I saw the name on a railway station. We

came to the roadhouse…”



“Was it so very wicked?” interrupted Mme. Storey, smiling.



“Well, I didn’t see anything out of the way,” returned the doctor

innocently, “but then I am not accustomed to such places. I wouldn’t

have known what to look for. As a matter of fact I had a drink or two

there, and I am not quite so clear afterwards as to what happened. All

I remember is that I became excessively talkative—it was a great

relief!”



“What did you talk about?” asked Mme. Storey.



“I can scarcely tell you. I suppose it was about the polio serum which

fills my mind to the exclusion of everything else. In looking back on

it I am astonished at the patience of young Tito in letting me run on

so. It could not have been interesting to him. In spite of all, there

must have been something genuinely friendly in him, don’t you think?”



“I wonder!” said Mme. Storey grimly. “Go on.”



“The next thing I remember is finding myself in the little car again,

still driving away from town. For some reason or another we drew up

alongside the road, and remained there a while, I still talking. It

must have been a very lonely spot; there were woods on either side of

the road; no cars passed that way. In my slightly fuddled condition

all this seemed perfectly natural. I was still talking garrulously

about my work, I remember, when I happened to notice that Tito was

playing with an ugly little automatic gun on his knees….”



“Good God!” murmured Mme. Storey, aghast.



The doctor, however, was entirely unconcerned. “I remonstrated with

him,” he said. “I told him to put the thing away before there was an

accident….”



“And then what?” asked Mme. Storey tensely.



“He put it in his pocket,” he said calmly; “and we drove home. That’s

all.”



“And that is the strangest part of all!” cried Mme. Storey. “What

could have persuaded him to spare you?”



“Hey?” said Dr. Portal, blinking.



“Don’t you realise that you were taken for a ride?” she said.



“Certainly I was taken for a ride…”



“No! No! I mean in the special sense of that phrase; the sense in

which it is used in the underworld. You were taken out to that lonely

spot to be shot, and your body thrown into the woods. The mystery is,

how you contrived to escape!”



“Why should anybody want to shoot me?” gasped the doctor.



“You escaped,” she went on, “but Dr. McComb was not so lucky!”



“Do you mean to say that Tito shot McComb?” he cried.



“I don’t know. Another tool may have been used in that case. Tito was

only a hired assassin, of course. There may have been several. What

is clear is that somebody had it in for the whole Terwilliger

Institute!”



“Why? Why? Why?” asked the dismayed doctor. “We injure nobody. We

threaten nobody’s interest. Our work is for the benefit of the whole

community!”



“I don’t know,” said Mme. Storey sombrely. “It shall be my task to

find out. Our only clue lies through this Tito.”



“How terrible!” murmured Dr. Portal, thinking of his near escape. “And

I suspected nothing!”



“Give me the best description of him that you can,” she said.



The doctor spread out his hands. “I’m afraid I’m not very good at it

… nineteen or twenty years old; about my height but much more

muscularly built. Very quick and graceful in his movements. Brown

eyes; smooth, warm-coloured face that still preserved some of the

roundness of boyhood; regular white teeth. Ordinarily he wore a mask

over his face; his expression was perfectly inscrutable….”



“This tells me next to nothing,” said Mme. Storey. “Try to give me

something characteristic, something peculiar.”



“Well, he had a trick of keeping a perfectly smooth face and speaking

out of one corner of his mouth,” said Dr. Portal.



“No good!” said my employer ruefully. “They all do that…. Did he

mention any names in his story? Did he ever let fall what they called

him?”



Dr. Portal shook his head. “No, I noticed that he was careful about

names. It was always ‘him’ or ‘her’ or ‘this fellow’ and ‘that

fellow.’”



“Then how about place names?” she asked. “Did he ever mention the

names of any places that he frequented?”



After thinking awhile the doctor said: “Yes. He spoke of Bleecker

Street. More than once I remember him saying: ‘I went down to

Bleecker’ or ‘I ran into him on Bleecker.’”



“That helps a little,” said Mme. Storey, “but not much. Bleecker is

the main street, the white-light district for the whole of little

Italy…. Can you give me anything else?”



After further thought the doctor brightened. “Here’s something,” he

said. “On the occasion of our second meeting he appeared wearing a

coon-skin coat like a college boy.”



“Now we’re getting on,” said Mme. Storey. “Coon-skin coats cannot be

very common down on Bleecker Street.”



“But he didn’t wear it down there,” said the doctor. “I chaffed him

about it a little, and he said he wouldn’t dare be seen in it around

home. He said he always hired it when he wanted to step out up-town.

When I expressed my surprise that you could hire anything so valuable

as a fur coat, he said he had a pull with the old clo’ man, that they

did business together regularly.”



“Then our first task must be to find that old clo’ man,” said Mme.

Storey.





IV


My instructions were to find a cheap restaurant or lunchroom along the

most frequented part of Bleecker Street, and to get into conversation

with the lady cashier. I chose three-thirty as the hour when such

places would be least busy. I was disguised as a servant girl on her

day out. I found my lunchroom and ordered a piece of mince pie and a

cup of coffee for which I had not the least desire.



When I paid my check I lingered beside the cashier’s desk with a smile

of foolish good-nature.



“I allus eats my lunch late,” I said. “You kin take your time and eat

comfortable wit’out bein’ pushed by the crowd.”



The cashier’s glance said that she didn’t give a damn if I never got

any lunch, but I didn’t care. I had her penned behind her little

counter where she couldn’t escape. By degrees I came round to the

inevitable “boy-friend.” She yawned behind her manicured fingers. I

told how my boy-friend was going to take me to a dance at Webster’s

Hall on Sat’ay night. I described the dress I was going to wear.



“Pink satin with ribbon dangles ending in little pompoms!” she

repeated, elevating her plucked eyebrows as much as to say: You would!



“I do hate to wear me old coat goin’ in,” I said. “If they was on’y

some place I could hire a fur coat I wouldn’t mind spendin’ the money.

I don’t care what I spend to look good. That’s me. My boy-friend, he

said he’d hire a coon-skin coat to match me if he knew where to go for

it.”



“Go to Ikey’s at — Sixth Avenue,” she said; “they hire fur coats for

ladies and gents. It’s the on’y place I know of.”



“Is zat so?” I said, and talked on for a while. Finally I drifted out

followed by a crushing glance from the lady cashier.



I proceeded directly to Ikey’s, which is on Sixth Avenue not far from

Bleecker Street. Ikey, I learned from Mme. Storey, had long been

suspected of being a fence, but the police had never succeeded in

getting the goods on him. At any rate he is the friend of every crook

in town. He sells more than old clo’s. He will outfit you with any

kind of a disguise that you require, and is prepared to sew you up on

the spot.



Unlike other stores, Ikey puts his worst foot foremost. All the

shabbiest and most disreputable garments are on display, while the

fancier articles are only brought out upon demand. To the hook-nosed

saleslady who approached me (they have them of both sexes) I said:



“Me brutter wants to hire one of them coon-skin coats like college boys

wear for an evenin’. Have you got any?”



After consultation with somebody in the rear the saleslady reported:

“Yeah, we got them coats for hire, but you’ll have to put up a hundred

dollars deposit.”



“A hundred dollars!” I cried. “He might as well buy him a coat.”



“What ja expect?” she asked scornfully. “That ya could walk out with a

fur coat for fi’ dollars? You git your money back when you bring it

in.”



“Well, I’ll take a look at it,” I said.



She presently flung the coat across the counter; quite a

luxurious-looking garment. But all that interested me about it was a

card tied to the collar bearing mysterious letters and figures. I

supposed that this was the record of the times it had been given out

and returned, like a library card. All I could read were the final

entries. There was a C on each line followed by two dates. I made

believe to look the coat over, and even tried it on, but the woman kept

the card out of my reach. Finally I said:



“I don’t know if me brutter wants to put up a hundred bones on it. Got

any utters?”



“That’s the on’y coon-skin coat.”



“Then show me somepin cheaper. Somepin with an elegant fur collar,

like.”



To my joy she went away leaving the coat lying on the counter with the

card attached. I made haste to examine it. The first entry on the

card read: “Chico, — Bleecker,” and then the dates presumably when it

was given out and returned. All the subsequent entries merely had a C

and two dates. Apparently it had never been taken out but by the one

person. A great satisfaction filled me when I read the last date that

it had been taken out; October 30th. This was the night Tito had taken

Dr. Portal for a ride. There could be but little doubt this was the

right coat.



Well, I got out of Ikey’s with a vague statement that I would “tell me

brutter,” and hastened back to Bleecker Street. The number I was in

search of proved to be just across the street from my lunchroom.

There was a shoe store on the street level, and a tenement overhead.

In the narrow entry alongside the store there was a row of letter-boxes

with names in them, mostly Italian, which suggested nothing to me.

“Chico” was a common nickname, and not of very much use in running my

man down. As I stood there in uncertainty, a loiterer on the pavement

outside said:



“Who ya lookin’ fer?”



“Chico,” I said at a venture.



“Oh, Chico Cardone,” he said. “He boards with Mrs. Mora, top floor.”



I climbed the stairs with a heart full of gratitude towards my

unwitting helper. Luck was with me today.



The upper floors were still unchanged from Bleecker Street’s palmy days

when the house had been a private dwelling. That is to say, all the

rooms opened directly on the stair hall. I knocked at the principal

door on the top floor and it was opened to me a crack by a handsome

Italian girl with a sullen expression. On the way up I had evolved a

new story.



“Excuse me, dearie,” I said in the oily voice of the low-grade book

agent, “have you any young men in your family?”



“No,” she said, and made as if to slam the door, but I shoved my foot

forward and held it open. “Wait a minute, dearie,” I said glibly. “I

got a publication here no young man can afford to be without….”



“Take your foot away!” she said angrily, and added a good masculine

oath. “There’s no young men here.”



“Excuse me,” I said again, “but the name of a Mr. Cardone was give me

as a boarder here.”



“He just rents the middle room from me mutter,” she said, with a jerk

of her head towards the next door. “He don’t board here. Anyhow he

ain’t home now.”



“Well, I’ll come back tonight,” I said.



“That won’t do you no good,” she said with a curious bitterness.

“Nights you’ll find him at Luigi’s caf�.”



With that she aimed a kick at my foot and I hastily withdrew it. The

door slammed, and I went downstairs with a light heart. I smiled to

myself, thinking of the girl’s bitterness. Had Dr. Portal’s handsome

little blackguard been trifling with her affections, I wondered.



I returned to the office full of the consciousness of work well done.



“Good!” said Mme. Storey when she heard my tale. She called up Benny

Abell, who is our principal liaison officer with the underworld;

“Benny,” she said over the wire, “I want to visit Luigi’s caf� at

Number — Bleecker Street tonight. Get busy and find somebody who

knows the joint and can take me. I’ll disguise myself, of course, so I

won’t look out of place there. You’d better come along too.”



When I was for retiring to the back room to scrub the paint off my face

and resume my own clothes, she said: “Why go to all that trouble? With

a change of dress you’ll do very well for tonight as you are. We can

eat here before we start.”





V


We met our men at nine o’clock that night in a cheap Italian restaurant

near Washington Square, so that we could have a couple of hours in

which to familiarise ourselves with the parts that we were to play

later. In addition to Benny Abell Mme. Storey had called upon George

Stephens, another operative, because the plan she had in mind called

for two men in addition to the Italian who was to conduct us to Luigi’s.



This case followed soon after the Jacmer Touchon affair during which

Mme. Storey had been obliged for purposes of disguise to cut her hair

short. Her hair was now about two inches long, and tonight she wore it

in a tangle of dark curls all over her head like a tousle-headed boy.

It lent her an impudent prettiness that was irresistible. Wherever we

went that night men’s eyes followed her. She was wearing a smart cheap

little red dress and called herself Madge Regan. She has the art of

making herself look common without losing anything of her

attractiveness.



As for me, I modelled myself upon her so far as I was able. Luckily

when she was present I was not obliged to do much talking.



At eleven o’clock the Italian joined us. Benny introduced him simply

as Joe. Benny refused to vouch for him beyond a certain point,

consequently he was not taken into our confidence. He supposed that we

were a party of people from uptown who had disguised ourselves in order

to see a little low life.



We went on to Luigi’s. It was in the basement of one of the ancient

buildings on Bleecker Street that still retained its old-fashioned high

stoop. A barber shop occupied the parlour floor, and presumably there

was a tenement above. My heart sank at sight of the place. True, I

knew that Mme. Storey had taken Inspector Rumsey into her confidence,

and that several plain-clothes men were hanging about the neighbourhood

ready to aid us if necessary; but what good would they be to us, I

asked myself, if they arrived on the scene after we had been shot?



Luigi’s was a depressing-looking joint and I felt sorry for those who

had to take their pleasure there. There was a long room beside the

entrance passage with a row of little tables around it and a narrow

space for dancing in the middle. It was absolutely empty. Behind it

was a smaller room with a bar where several men were drinking and

talking loudly.



The real sanctum sanctorum of Luigi’s was in the rear. It was a

sordid, dirty little room, evidently part of an extension to the main

building. A heavy fog of tobacco smoke filled the air. It was only

big enough to hold four tables, of which two were occupied when we

entered. A large party of young men pressed around a table in one of

the farther corners playing some sort of gambling game with a deal of

noisy talk. Beside the door sat three girls with a depressed-looking

man who was paying very little attention to them. The girls were

evidently employees of the place, but business was poor, and they had

fastened to the man merely to keep themselves in countenance.



I could not help looking at them curiously. They started to talk

brightly among themselves when we entered, but it was a hollow

pretence. What a life! One of them, I was surprised to see, was as

fresh and pretty as a schoolgirl, a tiny little thing formed like a

fairy, with the pure oval face that painters love to depict. I noticed

that she was continually glancing in a sullen fashion at the group of

noisy young men. I supposed that she had a sweetheart amongst them,

and resented the fact that he preferred to gamble rather than talk to

her.



We seated ourselves around the table in the other far corner, that is,

next to the gamblers. Presumably our man was amongst them, but we were

careful, of course, not to betray any curiosity concerning them. We

ordered grappa, the fiery liqueur that is so popular south of

Washington Square, and busied ourselves in our own talk. Benny was

supposed to be my boy-friend, while the tall Stephens devoted himself

to “Madge,” as we called her. Joe appeared to be what he in fact was,

merely our conductor.



The waiter came and went noiselessly between us and the bar. He was an

unnaturally pale and haggard little fellow who looked as if he had

never seen the sun. Occasionally a fat Italian entered the room, very

flashily dressed and having a big watch chain with a bunch of charms

and a diamond flashing on his fat finger. He jingled his charms,

exchanged loud witticisms with the players while he gave us all the

once-over with his hard glittering eye, and went out again. This, we

learned, was the genial proprietor.



As opportunity offered I sized up the card players. Some of them had

their backs to us, but as the game progressed they shifted their places

from time to time, and in the end I was able to get a look at each one

of them. Nearly every man at the table answered in a general way to

the description furnished by Dr. Portal. Nineteen or twenty years old;

well-dressed in a somewhat flashy style, good-looking in the Italian

manner. Handsome, black eyes, and well-oiled black hair.



After eliminating the ill-favoured ones and those who were clearly more

than twenty years old, my choice finally narrowed down to a

warm-coloured young man who sat with his back against the end wall,

while his hard eyes travelled from face to face of the other players.

He was certainly the best-looking one at the table; his features had a

grace and harmony that would have earned him a good living as an

artists’ model; moreover, there was that hint of boyish roundness in

his cheeks that Dr. Portal had spoken of.



Presently I noticed that it was towards this face that the sullen eyes

of the little girl at the next table were so often directed. Was she

another victim to his infernal good looks? He paid no attention

whatever to her. Finally one of the other players addressed him as

“Chico” and he answered. Mme. Storey and I exchanged a fleeting glance.



As soon as we had spotted our man, Mme. Storey began to make play to

attract his attention. She did not immediately look at him, but

addressed herself rather to Stephens in a drawling, provocative voice

that was bound to arouse Chico’s notice. Not more than five feet

separated their chairs. Chico, hearing that siren voice, looked—and

having looked once, looked again. The tousled curls netted his fancy.

However successful he may have been with women it was not often that

one so beautiful as Mme. Storey could have come his way. He stared.

Finally she allowed their glances to cross; she sneered at him lazily.

At the implied challenge his eyes began to burn. It was a fascinating

game to watch, but so dangerous it fairly made me sick with

apprehension.



It was not long before the little girl at the other table perceived

what was going on. Her friends addressed her as Tina. She rose

quickly, and edging herself close to Chico’s chair, stood between him

and the charmer at our table. It was a childish and rather piteous

manoeuvre; the little thing’s face was tormented with jealousy. She

put her hand on Chico’s shoulder. This proprietary gesture caused the

other players at the table to grin, and their grins enraged the

conceited Chico.



“Get out of here!” he snarled; and added a coarse oath.



Tina, with a flippant parade of indifference, returned to her former

place, and began to talk animatedly to the other girls. But her eyes

were tragic. It wrenched one’s heart to see it, but of course a poor

little may-fly like that could not be allowed to interfere with Mme.

Storey’s plans. If she got hurt that was her lookout.



Mme. Storey and Chico continued to fence with their insolent glances,

each making out to scorn the other. The old, old game. Chico was

evidently an adept at it. Finally, according to pre-arrangement,

Stephens began to quarrel.



“Turn around!” he said harshly. “You can look at me, see? I didn’t

bring you here to hand out smiles to another fellow!”



“Aah, what’s the matter wit’ ya?” retorted the supposed Madge

stridently. “You don’t own me. My eyes are my own, I guess, and I can

do what I want wit’ ‘em. You ain’t so much to look at as I can see.”



Stephens subsided into a sullen muttering, and Madge (it is easier

under these circumstances for me to refer to her as Madge) smiled at

Chico in open defiance. Presently Stephens broke out again, and Benny

and I made believe to be trying to soothe him. More drinks were

ordered at our table. The card players grinned at Chico. Apparently

they were quite accustomed to seeing him as the storm centre when there

were women around. Chico went on playing his cards with an air of

absolute indifference.



Stephens alternately quarrelled with Madge and ordered up fresh drinks.

It was a very pretty bit of character acting that he was giving. It

was a common sort of scene in that place and nobody paid much

attention. Once Luigi with his hard eyes and his unctuous voice gave

us a jocose warning to cut it out. Finally Stephens, making believe to

be thoroughly drunk, jumped up.



“Aah, come on home,” he snarled. “I’m not gonna stand for this.”



My heart beat like a trip-hammer as the critical moment approached. I

could scarcely fetch my breath.



“Go home yourself if you don’t like it,” retorted Madge. “I’m well

enough pleased. I’ll stay here with Benny and Belle.”



Benny and I got up. “No! No!” we said. (All this had been rehearsed

beforehand.) “Come on, Madge, let’s all go. George is gettin’ ugly

now. You know what he is. We’ll quiet him down outside.”



“No!” cried Madge obstinately. “Just because he’s turned ugly he’s not

gonna spoil my fun! You can all go home and be damned to you! I’m

stayin’!” And she sent a sidelong smile in Chico’s direction.



Stephens appeared to be infuriated by this smile. Seizing Madge by the

wrist, he jerked her roughly to her feet. “You come on!” he cried.



She tore herself free. “Lea’ me alone!” she yelled. “You ain’t got

any rights over me!”



In the background Benny and I made soothing noises. “Aw, let her

alone, George, and she’ll come…. Aw, come on, Madge, you see how he

is!” And so on.



But Stephens seized her bodily and started dragging her towards the

door. Madge fought like a wildcat. Stephens kept her in front of him

so that she could not reach his face with her nails. Benny and I made

futile attempts to separate them. Behind us play had stopped, and the

twelve players watched the struggling couple with cold, mask-like

faces. They were not the sort to interfere in what did not concern

them.



“Lemme go! Lemme go! or I’ll kill ya!” yelled Madge.



He had shoved her almost to the door when suddenly she reached down,

snatched a gun out of the top of her stocking, and wrenching herself

around, pressed the muzzle to his side. Everybody in the room saw the

act. They did not know that gun was loaded only with blanks. There

was a deafening report. Stephens released the girl and went staggering

back against a table, pressing his hand against his side.



“I’m shot!” he groaned.



Madge stood there in a daze with the smoking gun in her hand. Benny

disarmed her without resistance, and dropped the gun in his pocket. He

then turned to support the wounded man. He ordered Joe, the Italian

who had come with us, to take his other side. Stephens sagged between

them in a most realistic way, his hand still pressed over his wound,

his head hanging on his breast. I felt the same horror as if it had

all been real. The absolute stillness of everybody else in the room

was uncanny. Most of the faces bore cynical sneers. It was no

business of theirs.



The door banged open and Luigi and his waiters ran in. The fat man was

livid and moist with excitement. “Who done it?” he yelled.



“She did! She did!” cried Benny, pointing a shaking forefinger at

Madge. “She shot my pal!” And he put his arm lovingly around

Stephens’ shoulder.



“Get him out of here! Get him out of here before he drops!” yelled

Luigi. “My God! I can’t have him dyin’ on me! This will ruin me if

it gets to the police!”



“We’ll get him out if you’ll call a taxi,” growled Benny.



Luigi scampered away to do his bidding, and Benny and Joe slowly

followed him out of the room, supporting the fainting man between them.

All this happened so quickly that the bystanders had no time to wonder

why no blood appeared around the hand that Stephens was pressing to his

side. Madge made a move to accompany them, but Benny turned on her

violently.



“Get back!” he snarled. “Ain’t you done harm enough?”



Presumably they got their cab, for they did not return. Madge and I

were left behind. She dropped in a chair and, spreading her arms on

the table in front of her, hid her face upon them. I sat down beside

her, and put an arm around her shoulders.



“Oh, why did you do it? Why did you do it?” I moaned.



Play started again at the next table as if nothing had happened. At

the other table the three girls, with painful sneers in Madge’s

direction, resumed their low-voiced talk.



In a few moments Luigi came bustling back into the room. “Now, then,

girl,” he said harshly, “out with ya! Ye’re lucky to git off so easy.

Never let me catch you in my place again. I don’t care who brings ya.”



Madge raised a dry-eyed, terror-stricken face. “I dassent … I

dassent go out in the street,” she said hoarsely. “Benny’ll be layin’

for me. He took me gun off me. He’ll git me for this.”



“That’s nothin’ to me,” said Luigi. “Out wit’ ya!”



“Oh, I dassent! I dassent!” whispered Madge, glancing around

desperately for help.



Chico gave over his hand to the man who was standing next him, and

arose with a swagger. “That’s all right, Luigi,” he said with a lordly

indifference, “these ladies are wit’ me, see? I’m buyin’ for them.

What’ll you have, girls?”



“You’re a fool, Chico,” said Luigi, shrugging, “you had oughta leave

the women alone. You’re like to get plugged yourself for this.”

However, his scorn was tempered by a grin. Chico was evidently a

favourite.



“Thanks for the tip,” said Chico insolently. “I know my business.”



Little Tina suddenly sprang up, livid and trembling with passion. “You

would, would you?” she cried. “With the likes of that! She’s a

murderess! Put her out! Put her out!”



Everybody turned on Tina. “Yah! are you tryin’ to make trouble now?”

snarled Luigi. “I don’t have to take it from you! Git your things and

git, see!” He pointed a stubby forefinger towards the door.



Tina’s voice rose shriller and higher, but Luigi bellowed her down.

“Git! … Git! … Git!”



The girl suddenly collapsed and stumbled out of the room, weeping

tempestuously. There is no justice in such matters. Luigi followed

her out.





VI


In obedience to a glance from Madge I moved around to the other side of

the table, leaving the place next to her for Chico. We sat down. More

grappa was brought to our table, and everything went on just as if

there had been no shooting five minutes before. I may say that Madge

and I made no pretence of drinking all this stuff. Luigi didn’t care,

of course, so it was ordered often enough. The full glasses were

whisked away from in front of us, and I have no doubt brought back

again directly afterwards.



It was very thrilling to find oneself so close to the redoubtable

Chico. He was so frankly the preening, strutting male I was almost

ashamed to look at him. “Aah! buck up, girl!” he said to Madge with

his scornful grin; “you’re too good-lookin’ a girl to mind a little

thing like that! Nobody’s gonna do anything to a girl like you!”



However scornful his words might be, there was a dangerous purring

quality in his voice whenever he addressed a woman that was—well,

weakening! The little wretch was too good-looking, too sure of

himself. It wasn’t fair. Madge permitted herself to smile wanly in

his direction.



“What’s yer name?” he demanded. “Me, I’m Chico Cardone.”



“Madge Regan,” she said.



“And who’s she?” he asked, with a contemptuous jerk of the head in my

direction.



“Me sister Bella.”



“Well, say, they ain’t nobody layin’ fer Bella outside,” he said

coolly. “Why can’t she beat it home?”



“Nix,” said Madge. “Me and Bella allus sticks together.”



“Aah,” he drawled, at once contemptuous and cajoling, “send her home,

go on.”



“No,” said Madge.



Their hard glances contended for the mastery. In the end it was Madge

who faced him out. Chico was inveigled by the touselled head. “Well,

drink hearty,” he said, lifting his tiny glass. No more was said about

sending me home.



Chico, with his insolent narrowed eyes fixed on her face, picked up her

hand and fondled it. “Pretty damn quick on the draw aw right,” he said

grinning. “Me, I like ‘em dangerous, meself. They’s some kick about a

girl that totes a gun. What makes me tired is the kind that blubs all

over the place…. Just the same when you go out wit’ me I’ll make

sure first-off you ain’t got no gun in your stockin’ before I git it

meself.”



Madge pulled her hand away. “I ain’t gonna get messed up with you,”

she said, giving him scorn for scorn.



“Why ain’t ya?”



“Too many women runnin’ after ya. I don’ hafta enter no free-for-all

to git a fella.”



“Is zat so?” drawled Chico.



“You heard me.”



“Nobody ever caught me by runnin’ after me. I pick me own.”



“Yeah?”



“Yeah!”



It is impossible to convey in words the spirited exchange of glances

that passed back and forth. I wondered where Mme. Storey could have

learned the technique of Bleecker Street love-making. She was as good

as Chico. “You don’t exactly hate yerself, do ya?” she asked with arch

scorn.



“Why should I?” retorted Chico grinning. “I never lie to a woman.”



“No, you don’t!”—very sarcastically.



“Sure, I don’t. That’s what makes ‘em sore. They expect a man to lie.”



“Yeah?”



“Yeah! But I allus give it to ‘em straight.” He drew her arm through

his, and leaned warmly towards her. “Listen, kid,” he murmured

thrillingly, “I’m for you, see? … There it is, you can take it or

leave it, and I ain’t sayin’ you’re the on’y girl in the world neither.”



“Nor are you the on’y fella,” she retorted.



Luigi had returned to the room and was watching the couple with a

cynical grin. The scene between them was interrupted by the clanging

of a gong in the street. Everybody looked at the door uneasily. The

haggard little waiter ran in.



“The police,” he gasped; “the police…”



A window was thrown up and Chico went over the sill, pulling Madge

after him by the hand. Chico never thought of me, but you may be sure

I stuck close to them. We dropped on damp flagstones outside, with a

high wooden fence looming before us. There was a ladder lying in the

yard, which Chico placed against the extension. We scrambled up, and

he pulled it after us. We crossed a flat tin roof that crackled

underfoot, and went over another window sill into the main house. We

found ourselves in a bedroom. There were actually two people lying in

the bed. One rose up as we crossed the room, but Chico said: “‘S’all

right, Mike;” and he lay down again. It was like a crazy dream.



Gaining the main hall of the house, we went up three more flights of

stairs, and up another ladder. Chico pushed open a scuttle, and once

more we found ourselves under the sky. Chico carefully closed the

scuttle. I had a momentary impression of peaceful still beauty high

above the confusion of the town. The sky threatened rain, and the

low-hanging clouds reflected the street lights with a delicate pinkish

radiance.



Chico ran over the roofs pulling Madge after him, and I close at their

heels. We climbed over the low parapets that separated the houses.

The noises of the street came up to us slightly muffled. I counted the

houses we crossed. On the fourth house Chico dropped to his knees

beside a little skylight in the roof, and lifted it.



“This is me own room,” he said. “We’ll be as safe here as in church.”



He dropped out of sight into the black hole, and presently his voice

came back: “Wait till I shove a table under, and then let yourself down

easy.” And a moment later: “Now!”



I had a moment of horrible panic when Mme. Storey dropped into the

blackness, thinking she might be spirited away from me. But when I let

myself down, I found the table under my feet, and Chico’s hand to guide

me. He steered me to a bed.



“Sit there,” he said. “I gotta close the shutter before I light up.”



Mme. Storey was beside me. I was trembling like an aspen leaf, and she

pressed my hand to reassure me. By a little catch of laughter in her

breath I knew she was enjoying every moment. Well, that is her way.

It made me a little sore at the time, because my nerves were in strings.



The light flashed on, and I beheld a sordid little inside room with

only the skylight overhead to admit light and air. It was closely

shuttered now. The place was clean enough, but utterly cheerless; the

sagging iron bed on which we sat, the rickety pine table; a cheap

bureau marked all around the edge with the burns of innumerable

cigarette butts; and two broken chairs. The only humane touch in the

room was a photograph stuck in the glass on the bureau. Curiously

enough it was not of a woman, but a handsome Italian boy, thirteen or

fourteen years old.



Chico stood before us grinning. “Well, here we are!” he said. “On’y I

wish to God Bella was home and in bed.”



Madge now assumed a sullen and rather scared look. “If she wasn’t here

I wouldn’t stay,” she muttered.



“Would you sooner run out into the arms of the cops?” asked Chico

teasingly.



“Yes, I would,” she muttered. “When can I get out of here?”



“I don’t care if you never go,” said Chico ardently.



Now that we had separated him from the gang, Chico showed us a new

aspect of his character. He was not on parade now. There was no

necessity for him to play the part of the swaggering little bravo, who

felt nothing and cared for nothing. Now that he had us practically at

his mercy, something perilously like decency and kindness appeared in

his hard face. I gradually lost my fear of him.



“Aw, I ain’t a gorilla,” he said cajolingly to Madge. “I ain’t a gonna

bite ya. What ya scared of, kid? You was game enough when the utter

fella got ugly.”



Gradually Madge allowed herself to be won back to a smile. In his

room, however, her manner was entirely different from what it had been

in the caf�. There were no more scornful challenges from her dark

eyes. She was friendly and gentle as if she trusted him—and Chico

responded to it. Nobody is completely bad, of course. He talked to

her like any simple fellow to his girl.



Chico poured out the story of his life and adventures as if it was

relief to unburden himself. It was a lurid tale. He was mum as to the

particular incident in which we were interested. He still boasted, of

course, but there was a simplicity about his recital that disarmed one.

The poor lad’s moral values were hopelessly confused: he boasted of his

crimes, and apologised for his better impulses.



Madge took advantage of a lull in his talk to ask: “Who’s that a

pitcher of in your bureau?”



Chico sprang up and fetched it to the bed. “That’s me kid brutter,

Tony,” he said eagerly. “Ain’t he a swell-lookin’ kid?” The question

unlocked the last stronghold of Chico’s guarded breast. There was

something almost piteous in his eager fondness. “Say, I cert’ny am

foolish about that kid,” he went on. “Have to keep it dark around the

fellas or they sure would razz me…. There’s on’y the two of us, him

and me. Our folks is all dead, and I’m raisin’ the kid, see? I mean,

I’m payin’ for his raisin’. I got him in the Paulist Fathers’ school

up-town. Damn good school, too. The sons of judges and doctors and

politicians and all kinds of high-ups go there, and my Tony’s as good

as the best of them!”



“The sons of doctors and lawyers and all!” exclaimed Madge as if amazed.



“Sure, I know you’ll t’ink I’m a fool,” said Chico shamefacedly, “but

that kid’s gotta have the best education money kin buy. None of the

rough stuff for him; none of what I went troo. Me, I got my education

in the prisons. He don’t know where the money comes from that pays his

bills. He thinks I’m a travellin’ man. Gee! it would raise a stink up

in that school if they ever found out, eh? But I’ll take care of that.

The on’y thing that bothers me is, suppose I was to get mine sudden.

Suppose I stopped a bullet or got sent up for a long stretch. I tell

ya that shakes me nerve. What would happen to the kid if I kicked out?”



“Maybe the fathers would keep him just the same,” suggested Madge.



“Maybe,” said Chico frowning, “but I wouldn’t want him to be a charity

pupil. He has his pocket-money with the rest of them, and belongs to

the swell clubs. He’s on the basket-ball team—the junior team—and he

plays football too. He’s gonna be a regular husky when he gits his

growt’. Bigger’n me. Sometimes I go up to watch their games, but he

don’t know I’m there.”



“Don’t you ever see him?” asked Madge in surprise.



“Sure, I go up there sometimes,” said Chico uncomfortably, “but it’s a

kind of a strain to hafta talk to the priests and all. I’m afraid of

givin’ the snap away. So mostly I make out I’m travellin’. I took him

to the movies once or twict on a Sat’day aft-noon, but hell! you never

know what yer gonna see in them movies. They puts ideas in a young

kid’s head.”



“Ain’t it the troot!” murmured Madge, entering fully into sympathy with

his story.



“I feel just like a fat’er to that kid,” said Chico with an attractive,

shamefaced laugh. “Ain’t it hell to be a fat’er! Allus worryin’ about

him, how to keep him from learnin’ bad and all; allus thinkin’ he’s

gonna get one of these diseases that kids get.”



“Like infantile paralysis,” suggested Madge softly.



“Oh, God! that’s the worst,” said Chico. “Fair puts me in a sweat just

to think of it. And they say there’s an epidemic comin’ on.”



“I read in the papiss how there was a doctor guy gonna wipe out

infantile paralysis,” said Madge. “At the Terwilliger Institoot.”



Chico made no answer.



“Did you read that?” she asked.



“No. I didn’t read it,” he said slowly. “But I know that doctor guy;

Dr. Felix Portal.”



“Sure, that was the name,” said Madge; “you know him?”



There was another pause, then Chico said impulsively: “Say, if you’n

me’s gonna be pals I’ll tell you this.” Apparently he looked around at

me here. “Do you t’ink Bella’s asleep?” he asked apprehensively.



“Sure, she’ll sleep wherever you put her down,” said Madge.



“Listen,” said Chico lowering his voice—and you can imagine how I

stretched my ears for what was coming; “there was a fella hired me to

take Dr. Portal for a ride.”



“What!” cried Madge.



“Yeah, and I took him, too. Way to hell and gone up in Westchester

County. And I had me gun in me hand ready to smoke him, and I couldn’t

do it.”



“Why?”



“Because he was talkin’ about this now, infantile paralysis, and how he

was gonna save all the kids from it, and I happened to t’ink about my

Tony, and I couldn’t do it. I put the rod in me pocket and I drove the

old man home. And I ain’t never regretted it neither, though it cost

me a grand.”



“But what fellow would want to bump him off?” asked Madge.



Chico turned wary again. “I’m not tellin’ that,” he said shortly.



“But there was some trouble up there,” said Madge. “Anot’er doctor guy

was shot. I read it in the papiss. Don’t re’clect his name. Was you

in that too?”



“Aah, you wanta know too much fer yer own good,” said Chico, wary, but

perfectly good-tempered.



“I don’t want to pry into yer secrets,” said Madge with an offended

air, “on’y it seems funny why anybody would want to go after two doctor

guys who was on’y workin’ to save the kids.”



“Yeah, and it is funny too, if the troot was known.”



That was as far as she could get him. Mme. Storey let the talk drift

away to other matters. Before she could bring it back we were startled

by hearing a slight, peculiar tap on the door. Madge and I sprang up

in alarm.



“‘S’all right,” said Chico soothingly. “That’s the knock of a friend.”

Going to the door, he opened it an inch or two. Madge and I were out

of the range of vision of whoever stood outside. “What’s the matter?”

asked Chico. “Must be near four o’clock.”



“Well, you ain’t in bed yet,” responded the voice of an angry woman.

“Who you got in here? I’m gonna see!”



She pushed past Chico and I saw the handsome, buxom Italian girl who

had opened the door to me that afternoon. My heart sank like a stone.

The worst of it was, I was sitting up on the bed, staring directly at

her. It was too late then to lie down and make believe to be sleeping.

My only hope of escaping recognition lay in the fact that it had been

pretty dark in the stair hall that afternoon.



“Two of ‘em!” she cried furiously. “Two of ‘em! Here’s a nice thing!

Bringin’ ‘em in here right next to me mutter’s room! You got no shame

at all!”



Chico was much more respectful towards this girl. I suppose she had

some sort of hold over him. “Now Ria, now Ria,” he said placatingly,

“you get this wrong! I never seen these ladies before tonight.”



“The more shame to you!” she cried, “bringin’ ‘em here! Huh! Ladies!

Don’t make me laugh!”



“You can see for yerself there’s nothin’ wrong,” protested Chico. “We

was just sittin’ talkin’, like.”



“Yeah, and you was tellin’ ‘em all you knew, eh? I could hear you

talkin’ through the wall!”



“I just brought ‘em in here to get ‘em out of the way of the police,”

said Chico.



“That’s a likely story! Maybe they’re police spies theirselves!”



It was only the random shot of a jealous woman, but it made my blood

run cold. She came closer to the bed, peering into our faces. “I

thought so!” she cried in shrill triumph. “They are spies! Anyhow,

the red-headed one is,” pointing to me.



Our backs were against the wall then. “It’s a lie!” cried Mme. Storey.

“It’s a lie!” I echoed. “You’re crazy!” muttered Chico.



“Crazy, am I?” sneered the Italian. “She come to the door this

afternoon lookin’ for ya. Made out to be a book agent. ‘Mr. Cardone’s

name was give me,’ says she so nice. Yah! Well, I didn’t suspect

nothin’, and I told her she’d find you at Luigi’s speakeasy tonight.

She did find you there, didn’t she? And now you’ve told her everythin’

you know!”



Who could ever have foreseen this? It was just a rotten piece of luck.

Chico backed away from the bed, his face turning pale and hard. His

hand went slowly to his hip, and reappeared grasping an ugly little

automatic. I closed my eyes, thinking our last moment had come.



“Oh, spare her! spare her!” I moaned.



“Be quiet, Bella,” commanded my employer.



The Italian girl cried out too. “Chico, no! no!”



He had become the hard and self-controlled little gunman again. “Shut

your noise,” he growled out of the corner of his mouth. “I’m not gonna

croak them…. Call your dad.”



The girl stuck her head out of the door and called tremulously: “Padre!

Padre!”



Chico and Mme. Storey measured their steely glances against each other.

“I thought you was on the square wit’ me,” sneered Chico. “You fooled

me nice, didn’t ya? I gotta hand it to ya.”



“I shall be on the square with you,” she answered. “You’ll see it yet.”



“Yeah? You’re no Bleecker Street girl. I can see it in your eye.

You’ve got the look of one of the high-ups.”



A burly Italian shuffled into the room clad in slippers, pants and

shirt, with his suspenders hanging. He too had a gun in his hand. I

was sick with terror. “What’s the matter, kid?” he growled.



“Ria says them two women are police spies,” said Chico. “Maybe they

are and maybe they ain’t. I ain’t takin’ no chances. Keep them here

while I make a getaway, that’s all. Give me ten minutes and then let

‘em go, see? Let ‘em go and be damned to ‘em!”



Chico thrust the photograph in his breast pocket and snatched up his

cap. He had had this cap during our flight over the roofs.



“Where’s your overcoat?” asked Ria.



“Left it at Luigi’s. Get it tomorrow, will ya?” Without another

glance in our direction, he made for the door.



The tears were rolling down Ria’s round cheeks. “Oh, Chico mio,” she

mourned.



He paused only long enough to jerk up her chin with his forefinger and

print a kiss on her lips. There was something infinitely savage and

graceful in the gesture. He sped downstairs. Ria wept unrestrainedly.

Mme. Storey’s face was like a mask. I was surprised to see her take

his escape so calmly, but I was not familiar with all the details of

the arrangements she had made in advance.



Chico’s footsteps died away as he descended through the house. Then

suddenly far below we heard the sounds of a scuffle followed by a heavy

fall. After a moment a voice, not Chico’s, cried exultantly: “I have

him!” A breath of relief escaped Mme. Storey.



The other Italian’s face turned black with rage. “By God! they’ve got

him!” he cried. “But I’ve got you!” And he raised the gun.



Once more Mme. Storey and I looked straight into the face of death.

She never flinched. Ria flung herself on her father. “No! No!” she

cried. “The police are downstairs. They’ll send you to the chair for

it! These women are nothing to us!”



While they were still struggling there was a crash overhead. The

shutter under the skylight swung down, and a man dropped into the room,

landing on his feet like a cat. Another followed. Both were armed.

The first was George Stephens, the second, one of Inspector Rumsey’s

plain-clothes men. In a trice they had the Italian covered, and forced

him to drop his gun.



And so we were saved. In the powerful reaction that overcame me, all

my strength seemed to desert me for a moment. I dropped on the edge of

the bed. Mme. Storey said:



“Give me a cigarette, George.”



“Where’s Chico?” asked Stephens.



“They have him safe downstairs.”



He jerked his head towards the scowling Italian and his daughter.

“Shall we take these two along?”



“No,” said Mme. Storey, “they are guilty of nothing except standing by

a friend.”



“But he pulled a gun,” objected the plain-clothes man. “I’ve got to

take him up for that.”



“It was my gun,” said Mme. Storey quickly. “He took it from me.”



The gun was returned to her. “Come on,” said Stephens; and we filed

out of the room. Mme. Storey was the last to go. She slipped the gun

to the Italian, whispering: “Take out a permit for it, and you’ll have

nothing to fear.” He stared at her in dumb amazement. Such

magnanimity, I suppose, was absolutely unheard of in his world.





VII


Chico was lodged in the Tombs. After a couple of hours’ sleep Mme.

Storey and I were again hard at work on the case. Events followed fast

that morning. Acting upon a suggestion of Mme. Storey’s, the police

were searching the sewer catch basins in the immediate vicinity of the

Institute and in one of them was found an automatic pistol of the

latest Rives and Jackson model, 38 calibre, from which one shot had

been fired, and also a slightly flattened bullet. The bullet exactly

fitted the hole in the plaster of Dr. McComb’s office.



Steps were immediately taken to trace the sale of the pistol by means

of the manufacturer’s number, and in the meantime I was sent up-town to

secure some photographs of Dr. McComb if that were possible, and also

to run down Amadeo Corioli, the night watchman at the Institute, and

invite him to visit Mme. Storey’s office. A policeman accompanied me

upon the latter errand, but as it happened, Corioli came quite

willingly. His air of innocence was almost too childlike. In taking

these measures Mme. Storey, you will perceive, was following a theory

that she had formulated in advance.



By the time I got back to the office it had already been established

that the gun in question had been sold on October 28th, to a

well-dressed, heavy-built man about forty years old; red-faced and

wearing glasses; had the look of a professional man. When photographs

of Dr. McComb were shown the clerk, he positively identified him as the

purchaser. McComb had been shot with his own gun.



The final links were forged by the testimony of little Tina, the girl

who had been so rudely ejected from Luigi’s. The police rounded her up

and brought her to our office shortly before noon. Corioli, meanwhile,

was being detained in our back room. Still wearing her bedraggled

party dress, her make-up ruined by tears, and almost paralysed with

terror, Tina was indeed a pitiable little object. Mme. Storey applied

herself to soothing her fears. It was a long time before she could

persuade Tina that she was not accused of anything herself, but was

merely wanted as a witness.



“We know,” said Mme. Storey, “that Chico Cardone shot a man called Dr.

McComb on the night of November 9th.”



This was news to me, and I strongly doubted if my employer was sure of

it yet either. It is frequently necessary, of course, to take this

attitude in dealing with a witness.



“I don’t know nottin’ about it!” cried Tina. “I swear before God I

don’t know nottin’!”



“You are not suspected of knowing anything about it,” Mme. Storey

patiently explained. “I just want you to answer a few questions

referring to circumstances that led up to it.”



“I don’t know nottin’ about it,” wailed Tina.



“You wouldn’t want to see Chico go to the chair, would you?”



This was answered by a mute shake of the head amidst a fresh flood of

tears.



“Then if you help me to prove that someone was behind him in this

killing, that somebody put him up to it, he will get off easier.”



At this point Corioli was introduced into the room.



“Have you ever seen this man before?” asked Mme. Storey.



Corioli scowled a mute threat at the girl, but she answered truthfully.

“Yes, I see him. He come to Luigi’s sometime. Ev’body at Luigi’s know

him.”



“Did he ever bring a stranger to Luigi’s?”



“Yes. One time he bring a man from up-town.”



“What sort of looking man?” asked Mme. Storey.



“Big man,” said Tina; “red face; wear glasses. Look lika politician.”



“Look at these,” said Mme. Storey, calling the girl’s attention to the

photographs of Dr. McComb spread upon her desk. “Did you ever see this

man?”



“Sure,” said Tina with rising excitement; “that is the up-town guy

Amadeo bring to Luigi’s. You know t’at? How you know t’at?”



“When was this?” asked Mme. Storey.



Tina shrugged. “How can I tell? It was before election, because I

t’ink he was politician.”



“Long before election?”



The girl shook her head. “Jus’ two, t’ree days.”



“See if you can’t fix the exact night in your mind,” said Mme. Storey

persuasively.



Tina shook her head helplessly. However, after thinking it over for a

moment or two, she suddenly said: “It was Wednesday night. I know that

because the next night there was an orchester. Luigi hires an

orchester Thursday nights.”



“The Wednesday before election,” said Mme. Storey turning back the

pages of her desk calendar; “that was October 27th. Good! Now we are

making progress…. What happened on this Wednesday night?”



“Amadeo Corioli, he call Chico over,” said Tina. “Introduce him to the

up-town guy. They talk quiet. By and by Amadeo go away an’ the

up-town fella and Chico they talk long time so quiet. I know they

fixin’ up some job toget’er. Afterwards I ask Chico what he want but

Chico on’y laugh…. The nex’ night he come again …”



“So he came again the next night?” repeated Mme. Storey.



“Yes. That was the orchester night. I wouldn’t dance because I scare

for Chico. I watch them two. They not talk so long this night. I see

the up-town guy slip Chico little box under the table and Chico put it

in his pocket. When the uptown feller go home, Chico go in wash-room.

After he come out I find the little box empty on the wash-room floor,

and the paper and string…”



“Was there anything written on the box? any label?” asked Mme. Storey

eagerly.



“There was a label say: ‘One Rives and Jackson automatic pistol, 38

calibre.’”



“This was on the night of October 28th,” said Mme. Storey in high

satisfaction, “and we already know that Dr. McComb had bought the gun

that afternoon. On the following day Chico scraped acquaintance with

Dr. Portal. Our case is complete!”



I was far from seeing it myself at that moment. When the witnesses had

been taken away and my employer and I were alone, I said helplessly: “I

can’t understand it! It seems that Dr. McComb himself handed the gun

to Chico with which Chico shot him ten days later!”



Mme. Storey was in a deep study. “Think it over,” she said with a

provoking smile. “… The problem that confronts me is, what to do

with Chico?”



As a result of her deliberations she finally called up the District

Attorney, also Inspector Rumsey and Dr. Portal, and arranged for us all

to meet at the Institute after lunch, and for the Inspector to bring

Chico. The District Attorney at this time was Frank Everard, a

first-class man, and one with whom we maintained excellent relations.



And so the last scene of all took place in the bare little laboratory

office with Dr. Portal, all in white, presiding over it like a

disembodied face. From time to time I saw him glancing wistfully at

Chico, and I suppose he still felt a sneaking fondness for the lad.

And I confess I did myself. At this moment my heart was heavy for the

little gunman. Chico, of course, had resumed his hard, professional

air. His face was like a mask.



Mme. Storey said: “Dr. Portal, I promised I would not trouble you again

until I had found the man who shot Edgar McComb…. Well, there he is.”



“I’m sorry … I’m sorry,” murmured Dr. Portal commiseratingly. “Why

did he do it?”



“Why did you do it, Chico?” asked Mme. Storey.



“I ain’t sayin’ I done it,” replied Chico with a hardy swagger. “I

ain’t sayin’ nottin’ a tall.”



“Well, I’ll tell you why he did it,” said Mme. Storey gravely. “McComb

had hired him to shoot Dr. Portal.”



We all exclaimed in astonishment. “Oh, good God! … no!” gasped the

horrified Dr. Portal.



“When he saw that the poliomyelitis serum was going to be a success

McComb wished to reap the full glory,” she went on relentlessly. “He

foresaw that it would be one of the great accomplishments of science

that would make its discoverer forever famous.”



“What saved Dr. Portal?” asked the District Attorney.



“At the moment that Chico had his gun in his hand Dr. Portal saved

himself by speaking of what he was about to do for the children. As it

happens, Chico has a young brother who is the dearest thing on earth to

him.”



Chico suddenly lowered his head. The poor lad could not bear to have

us see the softness that overcame him at the mention of Tony.



“I suppose Chico brooded upon it afterwards,” Mme. Storey went on. “It

occurred to him that McComb could easily find another instrument to

carry out his will. He shot McComb to save Portal…. I’m not saying

that his reasoning was very good, but anyhow, that is what happened.”



“Strange are the workings of the human heart!” murmured Dr. Portal.

The rest of us were silent in amazement.



“I called you gentlemen together to put it up to you what is to be done

with Chico?” Mme. Storey went on. “He killed the man, and ordinarily

it would be our duty to let justice take its course with him. But it

seems to me that this is a case where justice would not be justice.

How can we punish him for acting upon what was a generous impulse,

however misguided? And how can we let him bear the brunt when the real

instigator of this crime—I refer to Mrs. McComb—cannot be reached by

the law? What do you say, Mr. District Attorney?”



Mr. Everard did not answer immediately. He looked very uncomfortable.

Dr. Portal broke the silence by saying in his quiet, deliberate way:



“I have a solution to propose.”



Everybody looked at him. Chico forgot his unnatural self-control, and

gazed at him with the wild hope of any lad in the shadow of the

electric chair.



“I need a human subject in my experiments,” said Dr. Portal. “If Chico

is willing …”



“What does the District Attorney say?” asked Mme. Storey quickly.



Everard’s face cleared. “I say that if Chico volunteers this,” he

replied unhesitatingly, “I will not undertake a prosecution.”



“Then, Chico, it is up to you,” she said with a curious gentleness.



“I … I don’t get it,” he said hoarsely.



“Listen, Chico,” said Dr. Portal rising. There was something

magnificent about the little man at that moment; the disembodied face

was pure intelligence. “I propose to make you sick with this disease

that you know about, poliomyelitis or infantile paralysis, and then I

propose to cure you with my new remedy. I believe that I can cure you,

or I would not propose the experiment, but there is a certain risk, of

course, because it has not been tried before on a human being.”



Chico’s lips were parted. He was breathing hoarsely. “And … and if

it works,” he stammered, “then you can give it to all the kids that

gets sick?”



“That is the idea.”



“But … but my kid!” cried the poor lad; “suppose it don’t work?

Suppose I kick out, or ain’t able to do nottin’ no more? What will

happen to Tony?”



“Oh, let me take that on myself,” said Dr. Portal, deeply moved; “let

me bring him up as if he were my own son.”



“I’d like to share in that,” said Mme. Storey quickly.



“And I,” murmured the District Attorney.



Chico stiffened his back, and endeavoured to call back the old swagger.

“All right, Doc, I’m on!” he said flippantly. “But make it snappy,

Doc. Don’t let me be t’inkin’ about it too long.”



“Now’s as good a time as any,” said Dr. Portal. “Come on upstairs.”

======================================================================

It Never Got into the Papers





I


Commodore Varick died very suddenly about half-past five in the

afternoon. The cause of death was given as heart failure induced by a

violent attack of gastritis. The news caused a great shock because the

Commodore was looked upon as a man in the very prime of life. As a

matter of fact, he was fifty-five, but so brisk, well-preserved and

straight-backed a little man as to seem years younger. He used to

drive on the Avenue in his open automobile, sitting up on the back seat

with a haughty stare just like royalty, with his bodyguard sitting in

front.



I received my first news of the affair from Mme. Storey when she came

into the office the following morning. The Varicks were friends of

hers. Tossing a newspaper on my desk, she said:



“Poor Bill Varick is gone. Shockingly sudden. I dined there two

nights ago.”



She went on into her room and I read the paper. It had spread itself

on the event, of course, for Commodore Varick was more than a mere

individual, he was an institution. There was a three column head on

the first page, and a half page obituary inside, reciting the

Commodore’s life story, and the history of his family. He was the

fourth William Henry Varick of his line, and his name was woven into

the very texture of the annals of New York if not of all America. In

fact, all over the world, Varick has become a synonym for the American

millionaire.



The third William Henry left a number of sons and daughters,

consequently the fourth William Henry, he whose obituary I was reading,

did not inherit his entire fortune. But he was the head of the clan,

and still an enormously rich man. This one’s accomplishments had been

mostly in the social line. He married an ambitious woman, and New York

soon became too small for them.



The title of Commodore had been bestowed on him by our most important

yacht club. His yacht Manahatta, a dream of luxury, was a familiar

sight in the harbours of the old world. Before the war he had

entertained the King of England on board; besides King Leopold of

Belgium and a host of lesser potentates. And, of course, he was always

in the forefront when royalty visited our shores. The Princess

Cristina von Habsburg was staying at his house at the moment of his

death. The mere recital of his clubs filled a long paragraph, and all

in all the newspaper did not exaggerate in terming him “our first

private citizen.”



And now he was dead after half an hour’s illness, and his mantle had

fallen on the muscular shoulders of that delightful scapegrace, William

Henry Varick fifth, better known as Hank Varick. In the newspapers of

late, the fame of the Commodore himself had been overshadowed by the

escapades of his son. I did not suppose that he was any worse than

other young men, nor did I believe more than half I read about him. He

was a sort of crown prince, and his slightest actions were, therefore,

front page stuff.



Apparently the reporters followed him all around the country on the

chance of picking up copy. The stories were of the usual sort where

youth, irresponsibility and wealth are in conjunction. He was

handicapped by being an only child. At this time I had never seen him,

but his oft published photographs depicted a handsome, stalwart,

laughing young fellow. All the gifts of the gods were his.



I was still reading the newspaper when Inspector Rumsey entered my

office. Rumsey had an admirable command of his features, but at this

moment he was plainly disconcerted. It startled me. “What’s the

matter?” I asked.



“A bad business,” he said curtly. He nodded towards the next room.

“Is she down yet?”



“Yes,” I said. “Go right in.”



“You’d better come in, too,” he said. “She’ll want you to hear this.”



I locked the outer door to guard against interruptions, and followed

him full of trepidation. I had never seen the matter-of-fact Inspector

so upset, and it had the effect of a convulsion of nature.



In the long room Mme. Storey, clad in one of the clinging Fortuny robes

that become her so well, was lounging with her elbows on the big

Italian table, a negligent cigarette in one hand, and in the other a

lump of sugar that she was holding up for Giannino the ape to nibble

at. At sight of our good friend’s face, she straightened up and let

Giannino have the lump of sugar. “What is wrong?” she asked.



“I’m in the deuce of a hole!” he said in a voice of extreme bitterness.

“I’m a poor man, but I would give a thousand dollars to be away on my

vacation this minute!”



“Can I help?” she asked.



“If you won’t, nobody can,” he said laconically.



From his inside breast pocket he took an envelope and handed it to her.

I was looking over her shoulder. It was a cheap commercial envelope of

the sort that is sold by the million. It had come through the mail.

It was addressed in block letters very painstakingly formed:





INSPECTOR RUMSEY


POLICE HEADQUARTERS





CITY


Inside there was a little slip of white paper on which was lettered in

the same manner:





COMMODORE VARICK WAS POISONED


None of us spoke. For the space of thirty seconds or so the room was

so still you could hear Giannino’s little teeth nibbling at the sugar.

The possibilities that loomed ahead of us were truly dreadful.



Then the Inspector broke out: “There may be nothing in it. Very likely

it’s the work of the sort of crank that such an occasion always brings

to light.”



“Yet, you’ve got to take notice of it,” Mme. Storey put in quietly.



“Sure,” he cried, “that’s the damnable part of it! There may be

something in it. And if it should come out later that I had been

warned, and had taken no action, I’d be ruined.”



“What are you going to do?” she asked.



“What am I going to do?” he echoed. “Push in amongst the cardinals and

bishops and governors and senators who are leaving their cards at the

house this morning, and demand that an autopsy be performed?”



“It is a bad business,” murmured Mme. Storey.



“The reporters are there,” he went on, “and even my appearance at the

house at such time would be enough to start an ugly scandal. Or

anybody connected with the department that I might send. And suppose I

get my autopsy, and everything proves to be all right, the scandal will

go on just the same. The public will never believe but that Commodore

Varick was poisoned, and that we were all engaged in a conspiracy to

hush it up. A nice figure I would cut!”



“I see what you’re getting at, Inspector,” said my employer with a very

dry smile.



“You’re a friend of Mrs. Varick’s,” he said cajolingly. “You could go

to the house to leave your condolences without exciting any remark. I

suppose you would be going there anyway this morning.”



She nodded.



“Show her this communication privately,” he went on, “and tell her from

me that I am very reluctantly forced to insist on an autopsy. I’ll

send doctors not known to be connected with the department to the house

at any hour she sets. It can be performed in perfect secrecy, and if

everything proves to be all right, as I am sure it will, no whisper of

it need ever reach the press.”



Mme. Storey arose and took a turn down the room. Her brows were

knitted. “Really, Inspector, this is a bit thick!” she said. “You

find yourself in a hole, and you’re attempting to climb out on my

shoulders! I think a lot of you, my friend, but…”



“Oh, leave me out of it,” he said earnestly. “I’m not thinking of

myself so much as of the Varick family. I hate the idea of starting an

unnecessary scandal at their expense. And with death in the house at

that. Why, the reputation of a grand old family like that is like a

work of art that cannot be replaced. I don’t want to have a hand in

defacing it. It’s the property of the public, so to speak, and you and

I are servants of the public, aren’t we?”



Mme. Storey smiled at his ingenious sophistry. While he was speaking

she had made up her mind for quite different reasons. “Since you put

it that way I can’t very well refuse,” she said ironically. “I will

go. It is necessary to act quickly. I will change my dress. You will

come with me, Bella.”





II


The Varick house was a great palace of Vermont marble occupying a

frontage of half a block on the Avenue, facing the Park. It was one of

the older houses of that neighbourhood, and was already at this time

becoming hemmed in by hotels and apartment houses; but it had been

rebuilt and modernised on several occasions, and was still among the

two or three most imposing dwellings in town. There was a grand effect

in its severity and plainness that the French ch�teaux and Italian

palazzi strive for in vain.



We drove up in a taxicab which looked rather undignified amidst the

long line of elegant private cars crawling up to the front door through

the side street. But Mme. Storey cared nothing about that. The

arrangements at the house were perfect, of course. There was a footman

on the sidewalk to open the door of our car, another to open the great

steel grille lined with plate glass, a third to receive our cards and

to separate the sheep from the goats, and still others to usher us the

way we should go. Back of them all stood the majestic figure of

Jarboe, the Varick butler, overseeing all. All the men servants were

dressed in black morning coats.



This ceremony was taking place in a superb marble hall that ran right

through the centre of the building flanked by a double row of antique

marble pillars, and ending in a great bay filled with gigantic tropical

ferns. In the centre of the hall was a little fountain of porphyry,

and a great shallow stairway with a wrought steel balustrade swept up

at the right. Among the visitors the merely great left their cards and

went out again, but the very great were ushered into the state

drawing-room at the left to be received by Mr. Varick’s brother, while

members of the family connection were ushered into a more intimate room

on the right.



We hardly belonged to any of these categories but Mme. Storey caught

the eye of Mr. Jarboe who came directly to us, a signal honour. To him

she whispered her request to be allowed to see Mrs. Varick.



“Mrs. Varick is seeing nobody,” he answered with a slightly shocked

air.



“May I send her a message?”



“Certainly, Madame.”



She scribbled a few words on her card, and handed it to him. She asked

if we might wait in a place where we would see nobody, and we were

therefore shown into a soberly furnished office behind a masked door.



Presently a footman came to say that Mrs. Varick would see Madame

Storey, and led us, not up the great stairway, but into a little

elevator hidden in the wall, where no one saw us enter. We alighted in

another noble hall panelled in oak, and lighted by a great dome of

Tiffany glass. There were a dozen doors all around, and I wondered

mightily what was behind them all. Our conductor opened one of them,

and we found ourselves in a foyer with more doors. The interior of

that house was like a maze, and I wondered if the occupants ever got

lost in it.



The footman opened another door, and we found ourselves in Mrs.

Varick’s boudoir. I had merely the impression of an amber effect,

luxurious and flattering to the complexion. The mistress of it all was

seated in a chaise longue holding a cigarette between fingers that

trembled slightly. She was most beautifully dressed, not all in black;

black and white. I remember it struck me as strange that she should be

wearing a hat. Later I learned that she never appeared in the daytime

without one. It was a lovely French hat partly shadowing her face, and

the whole effect was of some rare and exquisite orchid—a little

withered. Servants were continually coming and going, and she was

issuing instructions with a forced air of calmness very painful to see.



While Mme. Storey approached her, I remained standing near the door.

Thus I was out of earshot, but I could follow all that occurred with my

eyes. Mrs. Varick was surprised to see my employer at such a time, and

more than a little inclined to resent my presence. Mme. Storey hated

what she had to do—I could tell it from her stony expression, but went

about it directly and simply. Finally she drew the fateful slip of

paper from its envelope, and showed it to Mrs. Varick.



When the widow read the words upon it, she forgot that she was a great

lady. A little strangled cry escaped her, and she clapped the back of

her hand to her mouth, that piteous gesture common to all women.

Several of the women in the room ran to her side, but she waved them

back.



“Leave me! Leave me!” she said sharply. “… All except you!” She

clung to a slender blonde girl in black. This, I presently learned was

her personal secretary, Estelle Gilsey. “Look! Estelle, look!” she

whispered, showing the slip.



The girl cried out strangely, seemed about to faint. This, I remember,

struck me as rather excessive in one who was merely a paid employee.



I drew a little closer to the group. To Mme. Storey, I heard Mrs.

Varick say in a strained voice: “But this is probably the work of some

mischief-maker, some insane person!”



“That is what we think,” said my employer.



“Then why torment me with such a suggestion?”



Mme. Storey patiently explained the situation.



“Oh, why isn’t Henry here!” mourned Mrs. Varick. She referred to her

son. It appeared that nobody knew where he was. They were

telegraphing all over the country for him.



Mrs. Varick angrily repudiated the suggestion of an autopsy, and my

employer with the greatest gentleness and patience undertook to show

her that she had no choice in the matter, that even the great Mrs.

Varick was amenable to the commands of the law, and that we were all

working to save her feelings, and the feelings of the family so far as

it might be done. Finally, with a flood of tears she gave in. The

tears relieved her, I think. The secretary did not cry; throughout all

that followed, white-faced and stunned, she was a more tragic figure

than the widow.



Mrs. Varick clung to my employer’s hand now. “Rosika, you manage

everything,” she said imploringly. “You are so wonderfully capable!

There is nobody else I can trust. Oh, keep it out of the newspapers!

And above all, don’t let my husband’s family know!”



“I will do my best,” said Mme. Storey gravely.



In two minutes she had Inspector Rumsey on the wire, and within a

quarter of an hour, the three doctors appointed by the police

department had been admitted to the house by a rear door. They were

all men of discretion, and in order to guard against possible leakages,

they had volunteered to conduct the autopsy entirely by themselves

without the usual assistants. The body of Mr. Varick was still lying

in his bedroom, and there they operated. No one else was permitted in

the room. The servants, I think, must have suspected what was going

on, but they were wonderfully loyal. No whisper of it was ever

revealed.



During the dreadful period of suspense that followed, Mme. Storey and I

remained in the boudoir with Mrs. Varick and Miss Gilsey. My employer

having explained who I was, Mrs. Varick no longer resented my presence.

She lit one cigarette after another in her trembling hands, and tossed

them away after a puff or two. I do not remember that a single word

was exchanged. I spent the time looking at Miss Gilsey who was very

beautiful, and who seemed to be of a gentle and open nature; but she

was like one who had received a blow on the head, not quite all there.

I wondered at it.



At length Dr. Pulford the senior of the three physicians, came in. His

face was like a mask, revealing nothing. He said in measured tones:



“I regret to have to inform you that Commodore Varick met his death as

a result of having taken poison through the mouth. It was one of the

alkaloids, probably aconite, which is the most powerful of the

alkaloids, but it will require an analysis to determine that for

certain.”



With a sigh like an infant, Mrs. Varick fell over sideways into the

arms of her secretary. The girl’s face was like death.





III


Dr. Pulford brought Mrs. Varick around by simple measures. The poor

woman then went off into a helpless, shaken weeping, very affecting to

see. But notwithstanding her high position, her air of authority, she

was a shallow woman. Her husband’s untimely end did not distress her

so much as the threatened family disgrace. The girl, Estelle Gilsey,

who never made a sound, took it much harder, really; but I couldn’t

tell what was the nature of her feeling, whether grief, horror, fear or

guilt.



Mrs. Varick’s whole cry was to keep it out of the newspapers. “Rosika,

I depend on you for that,” she wept, fondling my employer’s hand.



“My own idea would be to keep it secret as long as possible,” said Mme.

Storey dryly, “simply in order that the guilty person might not escape.

However, the police must decide.”



“The police!” cried Mrs. Varick. “Oh, keep them out of the house!

That would kill me! Rosika, you take charge of everything. I engage

you for that purpose. Money, you know, is no object.”



“But I could not accept an engagement on such terms,” said Mme. Storey.

“My object would be the same as that of the police, to discover the

truth.”



“Of course! Of course!” cried the weeping woman. “But you do it.

They ought to let you do it. You are far cleverer. Keep the police

out of the house!”



“Inspector Rumsey must decide that,” said my employer. “… There is

one thing that I would recommend,” she added. “Under the circumstances

a public funeral would scarcely be permitted. Let all the arrangements

be cancelled, and let it be given out that Commodore Varick is to be

buried privately at the convenience of the family.”



“Even that would create a scandal!” cried Mrs. Varick.



“But not so great a scandal as the other,” remarked Mme. Storey dryly.



“Have the orders given!” cried the distraught widow.



When Dr. Pulford took his leave, Mme. Storey signed to me to detain him

outside the room. There she presently joined us.



“Can you add anything to what you have told us?” she asked.



He shook his head. “Not much at this time. Commodore Varick died as

the result of having taken a powerful dose of a poison, probably

aconite.”



“A very large dose?”



“Yes, Madam, it must have killed him almost instantly. Well, in half

an hour perhaps; in an hour at the outside.”



“Putting aside the possibility of suicide for the moment, how could he

have been induced to take it?”



Dr. Pulford shrugged and spread out his hands. “How can one say? It

is true that aconite, like all the alkaloids, has an intensely bitter

taste, but on the other hand, an infinitesimal quantity would be

sufficient. As small a quantity as one three-hundredth of a grain is

enough to set up symptoms. How much Commodore Varick got I cannot say;

half a grain, maybe.”



“Could it have been administered in tea or coffee?”



“It is possible.”



“Could the symptoms have been mistaken for those of gastritis?”



“Evidently they were,” returned Dr. Pulford dryly. “Was there only one

physician present when he died?”



“Only Dr. Slingluff, the family physician.”



“A very distinguished man,” said Dr. Pulford prudently. “It seems a

little strange, but I should not like to commit myself.”



“Is there any antidote for aconite poisoning?” asked Mme. Storey.



“Atropine,” he answered promptly.



“Could aconite in so highly concentrated a form be readily procured?”

was her next question.



“It is in the pharmacopoeia,” he said. “Aconitina is the terra applied

to the alkaloid. Therapeutically it is little used nowadays; it would

be difficult to obtain, but possible.”



“One last question, doctor. In poisoning cases of this sort, does the

victim retain consciousness until the end, or near the end?”



“It is usual,” he said gravely.



“Thank you very much.”



He went away. We had no sooner returned to the boudoir than a footman

entered to announce that Dr. Slingluff was in the house and wished to

know if Mrs. Varick desired to see him. Mme. Storey and I exchanged a

glance. Coming at this moment, it seemed almost as if the family

doctor had received some intimation through the air of what was going

on. At Mme. Storey’s suggestion Mrs. Varick retired to her bedroom,

and we waited in the boudoir for Dr. Slingluff. It was curious to see

how completely my employer had assumed command in the great house.

From Mrs. Varick down, all yielded her implicit obedience. At such

moments Mme. Storey is very impressive. Her beautiful face becomes as

cold and grave as a sybil’s. Only the glowing dark eyes reveal the

forces within.



Dr. Slingluff was in the forefront of his profession. Having started

many years before as a general practitioner, he had gradually won to a

commanding position as a heart specialist. It was only for the Varicks

and a few other old family friends that he still acted as a general

consultant. He was a handsome, dignified man about sixty, with an open

face, a man you would like ordinarily; but I noticed that he changed

colour at the mention of my employer’s name; in fact, I saw a fine

sweat spring out on his forehead, and that hardened my heart against

him.



Mme. Storey went to the point as directly as an arrow.



“I am Rosika Storey,” she said. “Mrs. Varick has asked me to see you.

It has been discovered that Commodore Varick met his death by poison.

For the moment, I am acting for the police.”



At the word “poison” the doctor went staggering back, and his face

became ghastly. But he was not surprised. “Oh, my God!” he gasped.

“Who told them?”



This answer clearly revealed guilty knowledge, but for the moment Mme.

Storey affected not to notice it.



“I am not at liberty to divulge that,” she said.



He made a desperate effort to recover himself. “Poison!” he said,

straightening up; “this is preposterous!”



“It was revealed by an autopsy.”



He was freshly shaken. “An autopsy!” he stammered. “Without my

knowledge.”



“By order of the police,” said Mme. Storey.



Some moments passed before he could give a coherent account of the

death-bed scene. “At a few minutes before five yesterday,” he finally

began, “I was called to the telephone by William Gabbitt, the

Commodore’s valet. Gabbitt told me that his master was very sick; that

he had found him lying helpless on the floor of his bedroom; that it

seemed to be a gastric attack such as he had had before, only worse.

So I hastily gathered a few things together, digitalis…”



“Digitalis?” she interrupted, “what was that for?”



“Heart,” he said, “that was the danger. I instructed my secretary to

telephone for Orrin, the stomach specialist, and I ran here—I live

just around the corner. I was here within five minutes of receiving

the call, but I instantly saw that my old friend was done for; he was

already at the point of collapse.”



“Who was with him?”



“Gabbitt, and Jarboe, the butler. I sent for Mrs. Varick, but she was

out of the house. I wouldn’t allow anybody else in the room. I did

all the things that one does, but it was too late. I sent Gabbitt

running to my office for atropine, and Jarboe to the pantry for an

ice-pack. Before either of them got back the Commodore was dead.”



“Atropine?” said Mme. Storey, softly, “is that a gastric remedy?”



“I wanted it to accelerate the beating of his heart.”



“Why didn’t you bring it with you?”



“One can’t foresee everything.”



“Then you were alone with him when he died?”



“Yes.”



“Why did you send Jarboe out of the room? There were plenty of

footmen.”



“To tell you the truth, I couldn’t bear to have a servant see my friend

in such an extremity.”



“Was he conscious?”



“I cannot say for certain. He was incapable of speaking.”



“Then he said nothing to you before he died?”



“Not a word, Madame.”



“H’m!” said Mme. Storey. I knew the same thought was in her mind as in

my own; that it was very painful to see a naturally decent and upright

man struggling to tell a convincing lie. I wondered what had taken

place in that death chamber.



“Was it not rather unwise to have no other witness to his death?” asked

Mme. Storey.



Dr. Slingluff drew himself up. “Well, I did not expect anybody to

accuse me of having poisoned my friend,” he said with dignity.



“Nobody has,” said Mme. Storey mildly. “Had you no doubts as to the

cause of death when you signed the certificate?”



“I would not have signed it if I had had. Doctor Orrin joined with me

in signing it when he came.”



“Did he suggest an autopsy?”



“No, he was quite satisfied with my explanation. Every one of us makes

mistakes.”



“This one is likely to have important results for you, doctor,” said my

employer mildly.



“Ruinous!” he cried in despair.



While she was still questioning him, we heard the sounds of a commotion

out in the middle of the house, a new voice, young and ringing. At the

sound of it, Dr. Slingluff turned paler still.



“Henry!” he gasped. “Oh, God! I can’t face him now!”



With that he turned and fled through a door. It gave on some sort of

service passage. Presumably he knew his way about the house. Mme

Storey and I looked at each other.



“Shouldn’t he be stopped?” I said.



“He is not the sort of man who can escape,” she said. “We can always

find him.”



“Was it he?” I stammered.



She slowly shook her head. “He wouldn’t have sent for the antidote,”

she said.



“But he knows who did it!”



“So it would seem,” she said with her most cryptic air.



A young man burst into the room, followed by several persons. I don’t

know who they were, servants of some sort, I assume. All these people

moved surrounded by a mob of dependants of one sort and another. The

young man turned around and waving his arms, cried: “Get out! Get

out!” They melted silently through the door, and closed it.



I recognised the heir to the Varick millions, a handsome young giant

with a mop of tawny hair, and eyes as blue as the sea. At the first

sight of him something went out of me to him that I could not get back

again. I soon learned that it was the same with everybody, man, woman

or child, but especially women, of course. I could even see by the

softened expression in Mme. Storey’s eyes that she felt it, too. I

cannot explain it; he was handsome and vigorous, but so is many another

young man who leaves you cold. I do not care for young men, as a rule.

This one had the combined attraction of a boy and a man, but that was

not the whole of it. There was something you could not resist. If he

had been a longshoreman’s son it would have been the same.



At the moment the tears were coursing down his cheeks. He was quite

unashamed of his emotion. In fact, he was so distraught by emotion

that he accepted the finding of two strangers in his mother’s boudoir

as a matter of course. He started speaking as if he had always known

us.



“My father!” he cried, searching our faces for some hope. “Is it true?

Is it true? Is he dead?”



“He is dead,” said Mme. Storey.



“Oh, nobody will ever know what this means to me!” he cried, clapping

his hands to his head. “Fathers always die, of course, but this is

different!” He turned to us again with streaming eyes. “Because I was

a bad son to him! a bad son! And now I can never make it up to him!”



His mother heard his voice and came running in from her bedroom,

followed by her secretary. She precipitated herself into her son’s

arms. From his protective attitude one might have supposed him to be

the parent.



“Poor little mother!” he crooned. “Poor little mother! This is hard

on you!”



But a strange thing happened. Over his mother’s head he exchanged a

look of the most poignant meaning with the girl behind her. Their very

souls were in that glance, then both quickly lowered their eyes. Mme.

Storey did not miss that swift look, of course. I knew it by her great

carelessness of manner.



I could not bear to be present at so intimate a family scene, and I

turned my back on it. But I could not avoid hearing what went on; the

widow’s self-pitying complaints, and her son’s clumsy attempts to

comfort her. There was something shocking in seeing the great Mrs.

Varick go all to pieces. The exquisite and flower-like woman was sadly

wilted now. So incoherent and disconnected was her speech that it gave

no hint of the real situation beyond the fact that her husband had died

with frightful suddenness. In the end the girl spoke, electrifying us

all by saying, in a curiously breathless voice: “Henry, your father was

poisoned. There has been an autopsy.”



He dropped his mother, and stepped back. “Poisoned!” he said hoarsely.

“Poisoned! … Then God help us all!”



Mme. Storey caught my arm and led me from the room. The others never

noticed whether we were there or not. In the little foyer I resisted,

thinking of my employer’s duty in the case.



“It is terrible!” I said, “but should you not stay? Will not the truth

come out?”



“Enough has come out for my present purpose,” she said dryly.





IV


We made a tour of Commodore Varick’s private suite under guidance of

Gabbitt, the English valet. This Gabbitt was a quaint-looking person,

like the figure of a barber out of an old-fashioned print; a neat,

brisk, spare little man with a great bush of hair that looked as if it

had been artificially curled. One expected to see a comb sticking in

it ready for use. It would have been impossible to guess the man’s

age. It transpired that he had served the Commodore for over twenty

years. He was devoted to his master, but took the present situation

very philosophically. He had the air of a man who has seen so much

that nothing can astonish him any more. He answered Mme. Storey’s

questions promptly and with seeming candour. It did not appear to

occur to him that, as one of the last persons who had seen Commodore

Varick alive, he might be under suspicion too.



First we entered a plainly-furnished room at the north end of the

second floor, that Gabbitt called the office. There was a young woman

operating a typewriter here, who neither paused in her work nor so much

as looked around when we passed through. This struck me as strange. I

wondered what on earth she could be writing at such a time. Adjoining

the office was the Commodore’s study, a handsome corner room

corresponding to Mrs. Varick’s boudoir at the other end of the house.

It was luxuriously furnished in masculine style with immense

leather-covered easy-chairs grouped round the fireplace, and many rare

sporting prints hanging from the panelled walls.



Mme. Storey’s first examination of this room was hasty, but she did not

miss much. A sheet of paper lying with others on an open escritoire

attracted her attention. There was a drawer below with a key in it.

She put the paper in the drawer, locked it and took the key.

“Something I will study later,” she said.



Outside the study there was a little foyer, and from that a short

passage leading to the other rooms of the suite. Opening off the

passage were, in order, a serving pantry, a little bedroom for Gabbitt,

and the Commodore’s bathroom. Here Mme. Storey opened a wall cabinet.

Her eyes skated rapidly over the miscellaneous articles on the shelves,

and fastened on two kinds of medicine; a liquid, and some capsules in a

little pasteboard box. She asked what they were.



“Digitalis in the bottle, ‘m,” said Gabbitt. “For the heart. Fifteen

drops in water three times a day. The capsules were for the digestion;

one after every meal.”



“The Commodore was taking these at present?”



“Yes, ma’am. The prescriptions were refilled regular.”



We took these medicines, and afterwards sent them to a chemist to be

analysed.



Next came the dressing-room, another comfortable lounging place, with a

dressing-table, chiffoniers, and with clothes presses built into the

walls. Beyond it was the Commodore’s bedroom, where his body still

lay. A man was on guard there. I averted my eyes from the bed. Mme.

Storey did not examine the body at this time, but merely inquired what

lay beyond the farther door. It was Mrs. Varick’s bedroom, Gabbitt

said, and beyond that were the other rooms of her suite. Both suites

extended along the Fifth Avenue front of the house. Between the two of

them, these little people, neither of whom exceeded five feet six in

height, spread themselves over eight or more immense private chambers.

Such is earthly glory!



We returned to the study, where Mme. Storey questioned Gabbitt at some

length. The valet told how he had been having tea in the servants’

hall when a call over the house ‘phone summoned him to his master. He

found the Commodore lying in agony upon the floor of the dressing-room.

I omit the harrowing details. Assisting his master to his bed, Gabbitt

telephoned for the doctor and for Jarboe. He tried to get Mrs. Varick,

but she was out of the house. During the brief interval that elapsed

before the arrival of the doctor, the valet applied what restoratives

his experience suggested.



“Gabbitt, did you suspect poison?” Mme. Storey asked. (I ought to

state that the valet knew by this time what had happened.)



“Well, ma’am,” he answered, “I think the thought was somewhere in the

back of my head, but I did not acknowledge it. Being but a servant, I

left it to my betters.”



In one respect Gabbitt’s story differed sharply from Dr. Slingluff’s.

Up to the moment that he was sent out for atropine, the Commodore’s

mind, he insisted, was perfectly clear. The sick man would allow no

one to be sent for but his wife and the doctor. He evinced an

agonising anxiety lest the doctor might not come in time, but it was

not with any idea that he could be saved. He knew he was dying.



“Did he suggest that he had been poisoned?”



“No, ma’am, no! He kept sayin’ it was gastritis.”



“H’m!” said Mme. Storey.



“He said one thing that was strange,” Gabbitt went on, biting his

lip—it was the first evidence of emotion the little man had shown; “He

says, ‘Gabbitt, if I should go out of my head, I beg of you never to

repeat what I say! Bury it in your breast!’” The little valet turned

away and made believe to arrange some objects on the table. “That hurt

me, ma’am,” he murmured. “But I didn’t let on anything. I just

pressed his hand, and he seemed satisfied…. As if I would have given

him away! After twenty years!…”



He straightened up and went on in his ordinary voice: “There was no

need for me to go for the atropine, but I got the idea the Commodore

had something private to tell the doctor, so I left the room. I have

seen men die before, and I knew that neither atropine nor nothing else

could save my master then. I wasn’t gone but ten minutes. When I got

back he was dead.”



“Gabbitt,” said Mme. Storey, “who was the last person he saw before he

was taken sick?”



“Why, ma’am, so far as I know it was Miss Priestley,” was the answer.

“Him and her had their tea together every afternoon at four when he was

home.”



“Miss Priestley?”



“His secretary, ‘m. That is to say, his literary secretary. That is

the young lady who is working the typewriter in the next room.”



“Why do you call her literary secretary?”



“To distinguish her from his private secretary and his financial

secretary. Those two are gentlemen. The Commodore was writing his

memoirs, and Miss Priestley was engaged to help him with that. Every

afternoon from two until four, when his engagements permitted, they

worked together, and after tea the young lady went home.”



“And tea was served yesterday as usual?”



“Yes’m. I took it in myself from Hannaford, one of the maids, and set

it out on this very table. Then I called my master, and went down to

my own tea in the servants’ hall.”



“What did the tea consist of?”



“Just thin bread and butter, ‘m, and a plain cake. The Commodore ate

very plain, along of his gastritis, but he does love his tea—did love

it, I mean. He would drink two or three cups of an afternoon.”



“Gabbitt, tell me the exact arrangement of the tea tray,” said my

employer. While she listened to him, she lit a cigarette.



“Yes’m. All they sent up from downstairs was the bread and butter and

the cake; also cream if required; the Commodore did not use it himself.

The Commodore’s own special brand of tea I keep up here in a silver

tea-caddy, also the silver kettle which plugs into an electric outlet.

The Commodore had his own notions about how tea should be made; he

wanted every cup made separate. So the tea was put into silver tea

balls which were dipped into the cups after the boiling water was

drawn.”



“Did the Commodore do this himself?”



“Oh, no, ‘m. If there was a lady at the table she did the honours.”



“Did the Commodore take his tea weak or strong?”



“Very strong, ‘m. He liked to taste it bitter.”



“Did the Commodore and Miss Priestley always have tea alone together?”



“No, ‘m. There might be other guests from time to time. Or if the

Commodore had special guests, Miss Priestley might take her tea in the

housekeeper’s room.”



“When you were called back upstairs had the tea things been removed?”



“I can’t say, ma’am. I was too excited to take notice. After my

master was dead I tidied up, not knowin’ what else to do. They was

gone then.”



Mme. Storey pressed out the lighted end of her cigarette in an ash

tray. “All right, Gabbitt; thank you very much,” she said. “We had

better talk to Miss Priestley, since she is close at hand.”





V


When we entered the office for the second time, the girl arose from her

machine and turned around as if she had guessed what we came for. I

was astonished when I saw her. Certainly the Varicks, both husband and

wife, had a flair for beauty in choosing those who served them. Miss

Priestley was a very Juno, a maiden Juno, tall and dark with Juno’s

short upper lip, straight nose and haughty glance. Superb! However, I

withheld my judgment for a while because I have learned that these

goddess-like shells sometimes house very small souls. I wondered if

the solution to the mystery lay in her. She was visibly all keyed up,

but that was natural. She had herself under good control.



She knew as much as Gabbitt did of the situation, consequently it was

not necessary to enter into explanations. My employer introduced

herself, and, in order to persuade the girl to relax, murmured the

obvious things about what a sad occasion it was, etc., etc. The

secretary rose to it like any woman—in words, but with a curiously

monotonous voice like a child repeating a lesson. Her remote glance

did not share in what she was saying. She was like a beautiful statue

with a phonograph inside it.



“Yes, I have lost more than my job here,” she said, “I have lost a

friend. All I can do for him now is to finish his work.” She waved

her hand towards the machine.



“Sit down,” said Mme. Storey soothingly. “I am told that you were

perhaps the last person to see the Commodore before he was taken sick,

and I look to you to help me.”



“Certainly,” said Miss Priestley—but she did not sit. “Anything I can

do. However, I am not the one you are looking for.”



Her odd manner intrigued my employer. “No?” she said with half a

smile. She was studying the girl through her lashes.



The secretary went on in her toneless voice: “You have been told that I

had tea with the Commodore yesterday, but I did not.”



“Who did?”



She made a slight gesture with her hand. “Secrecy was enjoined upon

me, but I suppose everything has got to come out now. It was the

Princess Cristina von Habsburg.”



The amused look faded out of Mme. Storey’s eyes. “So?” she said

quietly. “What were the circumstances?”



“Commodore Varick wished to have a private talk with the Princess

without anybody in the house knowing about it. Everything is gossiped

about so. The Princess is staying in the house. As soon as the tea

had been brought, and Gabbitt had gone down to his tea, I was sent to

fetch her. Her suite is on the south side of the house. I brought her

to the door of the Commodore’s study, and then I went down and had tea

with Mrs. Colford in her room.”



“Mrs. Colford being the housekeeper?”



“Yes.”



“What did Commodore Varick want to talk to the Princess about?”



Miss Priestley answered with a perfectly expressionless face: “I don’t

know. That is outside my province.”



It was pretty clear that she was lying here, but it would have done no

good to tax her with it. Mme. Storey went on: “How long did she remain

in his study?”



“I can’t tell you. I did not see her again. After I had finished my

tea, I went home. That was before the news of the Commodore’s illness

had got about. I knew nothing of it until I read it in the newspaper

this morning.”



“What a shock it must have given you!” murmured Mme. Storey.



“Yes,” said the girl. Not a muscle of her face changed when she said

it. An extraordinary person.



“Where is the Princess now?” asked my employer.



“I understand that she has left the house, but I cannot tell you where

she has gone.”



“Let us ask Jarboe.” My employer looked about the room. “May I ring?”



“The telephone is quicker,” said Miss Priestley. She took down the

receiver, and said in the same cold toneless voice: “Please ask Mr.

Jarboe to come to the Commodore’s office for a moment.”



While we waited for Jarboe, Mme. Storey lit a cigarette. Miss

Priestley declined one. My employer sauntered about the room making

polite conversation. But I knew of old that her mind was not

necessarily idle when she was making idle talk. I could see that her

eyes were busy; I could see too, that the secretary was covertly

watching her with a strained air; and for the dozenth time that day I

asked myself: What dreadful secret does this grand house conceal!



Jarboe was quickly at the door. He knew that Mme. Storey was a person

to be deferred to. She asked him at once what had become of the

Princess.



Jarboe, of course, had had to be taken into the family confidence as

far as anybody, but he was the butler of butlers, and though murder

stalked through the house, there was not the slightest alteration in

his usual demeanour. His superb aplomb might have concealed

anything—or nothing. He said:



“Her Highness left the house shortly after four yesterday afternoon,

Madame.”



“Did you see her go?”



“No, Madame, nobody saw her leave except Wilcox the footman, who was

attending upon the front door.”



“What did he tell you?”



“He told me that the Princess came running downstairs alone, in a high

state of agitation. In fact, she was weeping. Wilcox was very much

upset. He thought it most unseemly that her Highness should appear

upon the street in such state, and he hesitated about opening the door.

She stamped her foot, and commanded him to open it, and of course, he

had no recourse but to obey. He came immediately to tell me, and I

went to the Princess’s suite. I found that her lady-in-waiting, Madame

von Hofstetter, did not know that the Princess had left the house. She

was greatly upset. However…”



“Wait a minute,” interrupted Mme. Storey; “did she have no hat on when

she ran out of the house?”



Miss Priestley answered. “She already had her hat on when I fetched

her.”



“I see. Go on, please, Jarboe.”



“While I was still talking to Madame von Hofstetter,” he continued,

“the telephone rang, and it was the Princess. She ordered Madame von

Hofstetter and her maids to follow her immediately to the Hotel

Madagascar. They packed very hastily, and left within half an hour.”



“Then they were all out of the house before the alarm of the

Commodore’s illness was raised?”



“Yes, Madame. I sent the trunks to the hotel later.”



“Have you any idea of the reason for the Princess’s abrupt departure?”



“None whatever, Madame.”



Who could say if he was telling the truth?



My employer turned to me. “Well, let us go ask her, Bella.”



It turned out that there was quite a crowd hanging about the front

door, which included both reporters and photographers. It was of the

highest importance that our comings and goings should not be remarked,

so Jarboe put us into a car in the rear courtyard of the house. We

pulled down the curtains and got out unseen.



“Big game, Bella!” said my employer to me with a curious dry smile.

“The Princess is a member of one of the greatest houses of the old

world. Her ancestors have ruled for centuries. The ex-King of Saxony

is her brother-in-law, I believe, and she calls the King of England

cousin. It is the first time we have stalked Royalty!”



“How strange that Priestley girl’s manner was,” I said.



“That in itself signifies nothing,” she answered. “Everybody in the

house was acting strangely. Except Gabbitt. Perhaps Gabbitt did it.

He was the only one who had his wits about him.”



But I did not think she was speaking seriously.



In three minutes we were at the Madagascar. Mme. Storey asked for the

manager. We did not suppose, of course, that the Princess had

registered under her own name. “A young foreign lady of high

position,” said my employer. “She came yesterday alone, and was

followed later by her companion, and several maids.”



“Oh, you mean the Countess von Hilgenreiner,” said the manager. “She

left an hour ago to go on board the Baratoria.”



An exclamation was forced from my employer. “Good heavens! And the

Baratoria sails at three!”



Our eyes flew to the clock on the wall. The hands pointed to ten

minutes to three. And the pier was three miles away, the streets

crowded with traffic! We ran out of the office leaving the manager

staring.



“Quick, Bella,” cried Mme. Storey. “Jump in that car at the door and

drive as fast as you can to the ship. Go down Tenth Avenue.”



“I can’t possibly make it!” I stammered.



“Go!” she cried. “The ship is connected by telephone. I will get the

Commander on the wire and ask him to wait for you. Tell him that there

are police reasons for detaining the Countess von Hilgenreiner, or

whatever she calls herself. I will follow you as soon as I can pick up

Inspector Rumsey. We will need official support in this.”





VI


The Baratoria was queen of the Brevard line fleet, and her commander

was a knight, Sir Everard Bertram, R.N.R., K.C.M.G., and goodness knows

what else beside. I was greatly relieved to see the liner’s huge bulk

and her four mighty red funnels towering over the pier when I arrived.

Evidently the telephone message had got through. On the pier

everything was at a standstill; the passengers lining the ship’s rails

and a great crowd of friends filling the pier openings, everybody

wondering no doubt why she did not sail. The gangplanks were still in

place and I hastened aboard. At the head of the gangplank a cabin boy

was waiting to conduct me to the Captain.



I found him pacing his cabin, watch in hand, a magnificent personage,

resplendent in gold braid. Mme. Storey has crossed with him many

times, and he knew me by sight. His face cleared when I entered.



“Here you are!” he said. “I thought I recognised Mme. Storey’s voice

over the telephone, but I feared it might be a hoax. What is the

trouble?”



“There is a lady aboard who is wanted by the police,” I said.



“What is her name?” he asked, picking up a passenger list.



“When we last met her she was calling herself the Countess von

Hilgenreiner. She won’t be on your list because her decision to sail

was a sudden one.”



“What’s her right name?”



“Please wait until Mme. Storey comes,” I begged him. “She has stopped

only to pick up a police official.”



In a minute or two my employer came sauntering in, perfectly cool and

smiling. She and the Captain greeted each other as old friends. She

said immediately:



“I won’t waste your time, Sir Everard. I can rely on your discretion.

The person we want is the Princess Cristina von Habsburg.”



“Good God!” he cried in dismay. “A royal princess! What a frightful

scandal this will let loose!”



“I have it in mind,” said my employer dryly. “Is she aboard?”



“Yes. I have spoken to her. I had them put her into the Tudor suite

on B deck. What is she wanted for?”



“At the moment, as a material witness only. No charge has been laid.”



“Have you the police back of you?” he asked anxiously.



Mme. Storey opened her handbag. “Here is a warrant for her arrest.

Furthermore, if you will look over the side you will see Inspector

Rumsey there in a police launch. I didn’t want him to show himself to

the reporters on the pier. They hailed me, but I told them I was just

coming aboard to bid good-bye to a friend.”



“But when you take her ashore the jig will be up. The reporters have

interviewed her.”



“I don’t want to take her ashore,” said Mme. Storey coolly. “I want

the reporters to think that she has sailed for Europe. It is of the

utmost importance that the frightful scandal you speak of should not be

released prematurely.”



“Then what do you propose to do?”



“I have sailed on vessels when belated passengers were put on board

through a door in the hull,” said Mme. Storey. “When you get

straightened out in midstream can’t you open a door on the side hidden

from the pier, and put her aboard one of the tugs? The tug can steam

off up the river, and by-and-by the police launch will overhaul her,

and receive the Princess.”



By this time Sir Everard had read the warrant. “Very well,” he said.

“It shall be done.”



“Then come on, Bella,” said my employer briskly. “We mustn’t hold up

the Baratoria a moment longer than necessary.”



The bravest of men is subject to terror in some form or another. The

magnificent Sir Everard turned pale. “Good God, Madame Storey,” he

cried, “don’t leave me to face that woman alone! Picture me putting a

royal princess aboard the tug kicking!”



My employer laughed. It was the first time I had heard that silvery

sound all day.



The Captain saw nothing funny in the situation. “Come with me and

prepare her for what is to follow,” he urged. “The Baratoria can

wait for that.”



“All right,” she said. “Lead the way.”



A moment later we were knocking at a door opening from a corridor on B

deck. It was opened to us by a worried little lady, very elegant in a

German fashion, evidently Madame von Hofstetter. Over her shoulder I

glimpsed a delightful little sitting-room with doors opening to the

right and left.



“Compliments,” said the Captain with stiff courtesy; “I should like to

speak to the Princess for a moment.”



“I am very sorry,” said the lady-in-waiting in excellent English, “but

her Highness is seeing nobody.”



“I am more than sorry,” said Sir Everard dryly, “but I am the Commander

of this vessel, and it shall not sail until I have spoken with the

Princess.”



She had no recourse then but to give way. We entered the room. She

tried to make a stand against Mme. Storey and me,



“Who are these persons?” she demanded.



“Representatives of the police,” said Sir Everard dryly.



“Oh, Mein Gott!” cried the little lady, and made haste to shut the

door behind us. “I will prepare the Princess,” she said tremulously,

and started to move towards one of the doors.



But Sir Everard was before her at the door. “Pardon me,” he said;

“there is no time for that. The ship waits. These ladies must be

admitted to the Princess immediately. I will wait here.”



So Mme. Storey and I entered the adjoining room, a bedroom. It was the

first time I had ever been so close to a royal Princess, and I was all

eyes. In a word she was an exquisite little person, a blonde with dark

eyes. It was not at all one’s idea of a German princess, but I

recollected that she was of Vienna, the most elegant of European

capitals. She was little more than a girl, but so perfect was her

finish, her air of distinction, she might have been almost any age. A

Dresden china princess, but with nothing insipid about her. She was

seated in an armchair with her handkerchief pressed to her eyes, but

the instant she perceived that we were strangers she sprang up,

electrified with indignation.



“What is the meaning of this intrusion?” she cried with a stamp of her

foot. “Leave the room! … Madame von Hofstetter, who are these

persons?”



But the lady-in-waiting had dissolved in tears, and was unable to

explain.



I will pass quickly over the scene that followed. It was a lively one!

The little Princess endeavoured to crush us with her royal anger, but

she met her match in Mme. Storey, who smiled down at her in an amused

and tolerant fashion, and patiently explained that she must prepare to

leave the ship.



“This is outrageous!” cried the Princess. “I am the Princess Cristina

von Habsburg! Do you not know what that means? I am not subject to

your laws! I will communicate with our ambassador!”



“I believe that Austria is now a republic,” said my employer mildly.



She never got it. “The City of New York shall suffer for this insult!”

she cried. “Why should the police seek to detain me?”



“Commodore Varick died yesterday afternoon,” said Mme. Storey.



“Did he?” she said coolly.



“Didn’t you know it?”



“No.”



Mme. Storey’s face turned grimly humorous. “The newspapers…” she

began.



The Princess tossed her head. “I don’t read your horrible newspapers.”



Alas! for royal truthfulness. There was a newspaper lying on the sofa

at that very moment, with the name Varick uppermost in the headlines.

Mme. Storey pointed to it mutely.



The Princess was not in the least abashed. “I haven’t looked at it,”

she said. “And anyway, what of it? I was merely their guest. I am

sorry for them, but it has got nothing to do with me.”



“Commodore Varick was poisoned,” said Mme. Storey in a low tone, “and

you were the last person to see him before he was taken ill.”



The Princess stared at her in what appeared to be the purest amazement.

One could not be sure, of course. “That was not in the newspaper,” she

said na�vely.



“No,” said my employer dryly.



The little lady was breathing hard with emotion. She seemed to be

scarcely capable of speaking. “And do you mean,” she gasped, “do you

dare to charge that I poisoned him? In heaven’s name why should I

poison an American millionaire.”



“I don’t know,” said Mme. Storey. She patiently explained the measures

she had taken to protect the Princess from newspaper publicity.



“I will not leave the ship!” said the Princess with another stamp of

the royal foot.



Mme. Storey shrugged. There was no use waiting for more. The rest was

up to Sir Everard. He shook his head lugubriously as we passed him on

the way out.





VII


The scene now shifts to Mme. Storey’s maisonnette in East Sixty –-

Street. The address of this recherch� establishment is not in the

telephone book, and I shall not give it here. My employer had made an

arrangement with Inspector Rumsey to bring the Princess there, and

while we waited for them we had a much needed bite of lunch. Mme.

Storey ate with an abstracted air, and was disinclined to talk of the

case.



In about an hour Inspector Rumsey brought the Princess and Madame

Hofstetter along in a taxicab, while the two maids followed with two

plain-clothes men in another. Maids and plain-clothes men were put

into the dining-room to wait, while the rest of us gathered in the 1850

parlour overhead. There was a great change in the little Princess.

The royal air was subdued, and she was much like any other frightened

girl. But there was a hardness about her that was not girlish. In

fact, she was an exotic specimen, quite outside my experience, and I

could not make her out. I will say for her that the daughter of a

hundred Habsburgs was not craven. She kept her head up.



Mme. Storey’s manner towards her was kindly. “Sit down,” she said,

“and let us talk this matter over quietly. You are not charged with

anything.”



“Merci, Madame,” said the Princess ironically. “May I have a

cigarette?”



“Surely!” said my employer, offering the box. “If you’d rather talk to

us women alone, Inspector Rumsey will wait downstairs.”



“It doesn’t matter,” she said indifferently. She puffed gratefully at

the cigarette.



“Please tell us exactly what took place between you and Commodore

Varick yesterday afternoon,” said Mme. Storey.



“I cannot do that,” said the girl impatiently. “It was a private

matter, and has nothing to do with the public or the police.”



Mme. Storey drew a long breath for patience. “Pardon me,” she said,

“but in view of what happened immediately afterwards, it is of the

greatest concern to the police, and you must tell.”



An agonised look came into the girl’s face. “Mon Dieu! it would kill

me if these things were printed in the newspapers!” she murmured. “You

cannot understand my feelings! You are republicans!”



We Americans smiled a little at this, though goodness knows, it was

piteous, too. Mme. Storey said gravely:



“I promise you it shall not appear in the newspapers unless it has some

connection with the death of Commodore Varick.”



The Princess would not sit down. Standing by the mantelpiece, she

began abruptly to tell her story. She did not appear to be of any

particular nationality, but was merely of the great world. Only her

continuous, slight, graceful gesticulation betrayed her foreignness.



“I met the Varicks last winter at Cannes. They have a big place near

there. Pushing people, but not ill-bred for Americans. They courted

me, and I, well, my family is ruined, and I cannot afford to be too

particular; I allowed myself to be courted. Presently the son was

brought forward; a personable young man, but somewhat crude in manner.

I took that to be American. He bestowed his attentions upon me. We

were seen everywhere together. A few years ago he would never have

presumed, but, as I say, my house is fallen, my father is dead, and I

must do the best I can for myself. My mother, the Archduchess, was

invited to stay with the Varicks. Mrs. Varick sounded her out in

respect to the match, and my mother expressed herself as being

agreeable to it. No definite proposal was made, but I was given to

understand in many ways that all had been arranged. The behaviour of

Mr. Henry Varick … possibly I do not understand American customs….”



A spasm of pain passed across the girl’s face. She paused before

continuing. “When the Varicks departed for New York, I was invited to

accompany them, but my mother thought that it would be unseemly for me

to do so. It was arranged that I should follow them later, and visit

them in New York. My mother having a dread of the ocean, my friend

Madame von Hofstetter accompanied me. We arrived a week ago. It was

immediately apparent that some hitch had arisen. The manner of both

Mr. and Mrs. Varick towards me was strained. Day after day I waited,

and the young man did not appear. Finally I learned that he had been

in the house and had departed again without seeing me.



“Yesterday afternoon,” she continued, “Commodore Varick sent his

secretary, and I was conducted with much secrecy to his study. He was

in a state of painful embarrassment. From his stammering and beating

about the bush I gathered that there was an impediment to the match.

Me, I am accustomed to speaking plainly. When I taxed him with it, he

said yes, to his great regret, everything was definitely off….” The

girl’s cheeks flushed red at the recollection. “Mon Dieu! to me, a

Habsburg! After I had condescended to these canaille! After I had

allowed myself to be brought across the ocean! Dieu! I thought I

should die with rage. What could I do? I ran out of the house that

moment, and sent back for my servants to follow me.”



A silence followed the completion of her story. The little Princess

stood there breathing fast. We all felt, I think, that she had been

pretty badly used. Finally Mme. Storey said, in a casual manner:



“Before you left the room, had you and Commodore Varick drunk tea?”



The girl struck her forehead. “Let me think! Yes, I remember that tea

was made. I made it with little silver balls.”



She said this in a seemingly open manner, but she was far from being a

simple maiden, and how could one tell?



“Was it drunk?”



“I did not drink any,” she said quickly.



“And the Commodore?”



“I do not know…. Yes! I have a recollection of seeing him swallow

it, of the emptied cup.”



“Was this before or after he made his announcement to you?” asked Mme.

Storey softly.



“I can’t remember,” she said listlessly. Then she started. “Before!

Before! Before!” she cried excitedly.



“H’m!” said Mme. Storey. She took a turn up and down. “Did Commodore

Varick give any reason for breaking off the match?” she asked, offhand.



The Princess’s back was stiff and her chin up as she answered. “Yes,

he said the young man was disinclined to it.” She got it out all

right, then came a disastrous breakdown. She extended her arm along

the mantel, and dropping her head upon it, broke into an uncontrollable

sobbing. “I wish I was dead!” she gasped. It was piteous.



Madame von Hofstetter flew to her and took her in her arms. The elder

woman turned an imploring face over her shoulder towards Mme. Storey.

“Where can I take her?” she asked.



“Into my bedroom across the hall,” said the latter, opening the door.



They disappeared. When my employer returned, Inspector Rumsey said

anxiously: “What do you make of it?”



Mme. Storey’s face looked pale and drawn. “The proud little Princess

has a heart just the same as any common girl,” she said. “She has had

the misfortune to give it to Hank Varick, who has more hearts than he

can use.”



“A nasty case!” said the Inspector. “It will be difficult to bring it

home to her. No witnesses.”



“I’m not satisfied that she did it,” said Mme. Storey, pacing the room.



“But her rage!” he said. “And she comes of bad stock. Those royalties

have been accustomed for centuries to remove their enemies in just such

a manner.”



“Quite!” said Mme. Storey, smiling a little at his honest Americanism.

“But I never before heard of a girl who killed the father because the

son had jilted her. The motive does not seem adequate. Moreover, it

is hardly credible that a royal Princess should be carrying around a

dose of aconite ready to administer to anybody who might displease her.

Aconite is not a habit-forming drug. Nobody takes aconite for the kick

in it.”



“Then who did it?” he asked blankly.



“Oh, I’m not saying she didn’t do it,” said my employer. “Frankly, I

don’t know. What I do see is, that we have scarcely scratched the

surface of this case as yet. There is a deal of hard spade work before

us. Is it your wish that I should continue to represent you?”



“Sure!” he cried, “you must not desert me now.”



“Very well,” she said, “I will return to the Varick house and stay

there until I see light. I will communicate with you by telephone when

necessary, according to the method we have used before. You and your

men must trace that anonymous letter to its source if it is humanly

possible to do so. The Princess and her entourage will stay here in my

place, under guard. Bella goes with me.”



While Mme. Storey was still issuing instructions, her maid Grace

entered, bearing a letter on a salver. She said: “This has just come,

Madame. It is marked urgent, so I brought it right up.”



Mme. Storey put out an inattentive hand for the envelope. But when her

eyes fell upon it she started. “Look at this!” she cried, holding it

up. The address was printed in the same sort of carefully-formed

characters that had appeared on the anonymous letter addressed to the

Inspector. She tore it open. It contained a slip similar to that

other slip, with a single line of printed characters:



LOOK INTO HANK VARICK’S MOVEMENTS YESTERDAY.





VIII


In my employer’s quaint and charming parlour, Mme. Storey and Inspector

Rumsey laid out a joint plan of campaign. It was of prime importance

to trace the two anonymous letters to their source. The Inspector had

already set the police machinery in motion to trace them through the

mails, while Mme. Storey was to work to the same end inside the Varick

house. It was fairly obvious now that they had originated in the

house, since no one knew that Mme. Storey was at work upon the case

except certain persons in the Varick household. Inspector Rumsey

further agreed to have the recent movements of young Henry Varick

investigated as far as possible, and a report prepared for Mme. Storey

covering the young man’s whole career, so far as the details might be

learned from old newspapers, and from inquiries amongst his associates.

By this time the Inspector’s doctors had definitely reported to him

that Commodore Varick had come to his death as the result of a powerful

dose of the alkaloid of aconite. Tannin was also found, and the

inference was that he had taken the drug in strong tea. But this was

not positively established. The police were already at work

endeavouring to trace any sales of the drug aconitina that might have

been made lately. Sales of this powerful drug were rare.



In order to provide us with additional assistance inside the house,

Mme. Storey arranged to have Crider, our cleverest and most dependable

operator, apply to Jarboe, the Varick butler, for a job as footman.

She arranged with Jarboe later to take him on. The Princess Cristina

von Habsburg, her lady-in-waiting and their maids, were to be

accommodated in Mme. Storey’s maisonnette for the present. Mme.

Storey’s servants were to feed them and make them as comfortable as

possible, and a plain-clothes man would be on guard in the entrance

corridor at all hours of the day and night. The Princess was given the

privilege of consulting counsel, but she made no move to do so. I need

hardly say that she very willingly joined with us in our little

conspiracy to keep this case out of the newspapers for the moment. We

expected it to break sooner or later.



All these arrangements having been effected, Mme. Storey telephoned to

the Varick house for the same car that had carried us away from there

three hours earlier. It was a closed car, having shades that pulled

down inside the windows, and by this means we returned to the house,

through the courtyard, without having been recognised by any of the

loungers or watchers in the street. We made our headquarters in

Commodore Varick’s office on the second floor. It was now nearly six,

and Miss Priestley, the “literary secretary,” had gone home. We had

learned that Mr. Henry Varick was still with his mother, but Mme.

Storey made no effort to see him as yet. She wished to avoid giving

him any reason to suspect that he was being investigated. We

interviewed several members of the household whom I need not mention,

since they contributed nothing of moment to the case. My job was to

take notes of all interviews.



It was not until Mme. Storey had her second talk with Gabbitt, the

Commodore’s valet, that we began to strike pay ore. The quaint little

fuzzy-headed man made an excellent witness, but how far he was telling

the truth, I could never have undertaken to say. He was a philosopher

in his way. There was a curious reasonableness about him—I mean, that

while he was devoted to his master, he nevertheless felt free to

criticise him. At this time we were making a more intensive

examination of the Commodore’s suite.



“Gabbitt,” said my mistress, “what were the relations between Mr. Henry

and his father?”



“Bad, ma’am,” said Gabbitt. “All the world knows that.”



“But how do you mean bad?”



“Well, ma’am, it was the usual thing between a rich father and his son.

Particularly when it’s an only child. When he was little, Mr. Henry

was spoiled, and when he grew up his father blamed him because he

turned out wilful.”



“When did the trouble between them start?”



“Four, five years ago when Mr. Henry was in college. He was very wild.

It was one scrape after another.”



“With women?”



“Yes, ma’am, gen’ally speakin’. Mr. Henry complained to me once that

it wasn’t his fault, that they fair flung themselves at his head.

Quite apart from being William Henry Varick, and all that, Mr. Henry is

a very attractive young man, so gay and full of life.”



“So we have perceived,” said Mme. Storey.



“He wasn’t to blame for all the trouble, though it is only fair to

state that he wasn’t no Sir Galahad neither.”



“It is scarcely to be expected,” said my employer dryly.



“His name made him a fair mark for scoundrels, and there was always

somebody, either man or woman, trying to blackmail him. It cost the

Commodore a pretty penny to settle with such people. The Commodore was

very sensitive about any scandal attaching to the family name. Mrs.

Varick would take her son’s part, naturally, and there were bitter

family scenes. My memory is hazy about the details of these scrapes…”



“Never mind that,” said Mme. Storey. “Proceed.”



“The Commodore was always reproaching his son for doing nothing but

spend money,” Gabbitt continued, “and some time after he had left

college—he did not graduate—Mr. Henry undertook to go into business

on his own account. In college the only thing he had been any good at

was chemistry….”



“Oh, chemistry,” said Mme. Storey.



“Yes, ‘m, and so his thoughts naturally turned towards the chemical

business. His idea was to form a combination of all the drug

manufacturers in the country, and to found a great research laboratory

that would advance the whole business. It looked like a good scheme,

and his father backed him heavily, stipulating only that the family

name be kept out of it. The Commodore didn’t want to be connected with

trade in any way.”



“Quite!” said my employer.



“It started off all right, but something happened. I don’t understand

the details. Mr. Henry always claimed that he had been rooked. Very

likely he lacked the skill and experience to conduct so vast an

enterprise. At any rate, there was a tremendous crash, and whereas it

had cost the Commodore a few thousands to get his son out of his

college scrapes, his liabilities in the chemical affair ran into the

millions. The family finances were seriously affected. It led to a

bitter quarrel between father and son, and since that time, Mr. Henry

has not been seen much about the house. It is said that he visited his

mother secretly. Last summer Mrs. Varick patched up a truce between

father and son, and in the fall Mr. Henry accompanied us to Europe.”



“Gabbitt,” said Mme. Storey, “from your observation, would you say that

the affair between Mr. Henry and the Princess Cristina was a serious

one?”



“She thought it was,” said the little man promptly, “and Mr. Henry was

undeniably smitten. But we who had watched him grow up were not taken

in by it. He was easily smitten. As soon as we sailed home she passed

out of his mind. Why, there was a girl on board ship…”



“Never mind her,” said my employer good-naturedly, “but tell me what

was the last occasion that Mr. Henry saw his father.”



“Day before yesterday, ‘m. This is Wednesday, yes, it was Monday

afternoon.”



“What were the circumstances of his visit?”



“The Commodore had been telegraphing and telephoning all over the

country to find him, the Princess Cristina being here. The general

feeling amongst us servants was that Mr. Henry was purposely keeping

out of the way. Be that as it may, when he was sent for he had to

come. He came on Monday afternoon, and there was a terrible quarrel

between him and his father in the study. I supposed that it was over

the Princess, being as the Commodore’s heart was set on that match. I

was in and out of the dressing-room and the pantry, and just at the

end, Mr. Henry opened the door into the foyer, and I heard his father

call after him: ‘I never want to see you again!’ And Mr. Henry’s

answer, hard and bitter: ‘You shan’t!’ Then the slam of the door, and

Mr. Henry was gone!” Gabbitt made a dramatic pause.



“Go on,” said Mme. Storey.



“It had happened before,” he resumed, “and I didn’t take it so serious.

Not until yesterday morning, that is, when the Commodore’s lawyer

turned up and a new will was made.”



“Oh, a new will.”



“Yes, ma’am. That had happened before, too. But on former occasions

the lawyer had been called in and instructions given him, and after a

few days he would come back with the will to be signed. This time the

will was made on the spot, so I knew the Commodore was bitter angry.

The lawyer wrote it out himself on Miss Priestley’s typewriter, and

afterwards Miss Priestley and me was called into the study to witness

it. It was a short will; scarcely filled one sheet of paper. The top

part of the sheet was turned under when we signed, and I don’t know

what was in it.”



We were in the pantry at this moment, and while Mme. Storey listened

her eyes were passing along the rows of cups and glasses on the little

buffet. “One moment,” she said. “Have you got a magnifying glass of

any sort? A reading glass will do.”



It was fetched her from the study. She examined the shelves.

“Gabbitt, how many of these cups did you set out on the tea-table

yesterday?” she asked.



“Two, ma’am. No guests were expected.”



“Any of these glasses?” pointing to a row of tall, iridescent tumblers.



“No, ma’am. Those are for whisky and soda. The Commodore don’t

indulge at tea-time.”



My employer passed on into the study without offering any comment.

“Well, go on,” she said, and then, very unexpectedly: “Mr. Henry came

back yesterday afternoon?”



“Why no, ma’am,” said Gabbitt in great surprise. “Not after such a

quarrel!” It seemed to me that he was a little too open-eyed, too

innocent then.



“No?” said Mme. Storey carelessly. “Well, that’s all now. Thank you

very much, Gabbitt.”



He lingered in the doorway, eyeing her anxiously. He was longing to

ask her a question, but did not dare. Mme. Storey affected to ignore

him. He went out.





IX


Mme. Storey questioned several of the servants with a view to learning

if young Henry Varick had been in the house on the day before. All

blandly denied it, nor could she entrap them into any admission.



“Lying,” she said coolly, when the last had gone. “Notice that they

did not say, ‘I did not see him,’ but all said, ‘He was not here.’”



“Why not ask Mrs. Varick’s pretty secretary, Miss Gilsey?” I suggested.

“She could tell you.”



“Quite,” said Mme. Storey, “and would immediately tell Henry that I had

asked. I don’t want to put him on his guard. I want to meet him as if

by accident, and fall into casual talk. If I am able to bring that

about, don’t you dare to let a notebook appear. Remember all that

passes as well as you can, and put it down afterwards.”



With Jarboe, my employer pursued a slightly different method. She told

the butler it was necessary for her to have a complete lay-out of the

house in her mind, especially the second floor, and the three of us

strolled around, while he pointed out the different rooms. Mme. Storey

said: “The Commodore’s suite, and Mrs. Varick’s, which adjoins it,

occupy the whole of the Avenue frontage on this floor. I’ve got that

straight. What else is there?”



“On the south side is the guest suite lately occupied by the Princess

Cristina,” said Jarboe, indicating. “And there’s an extra bedroom at

the back that was given to her lady-in-waiting. Would you like to see

the rooms?”



“Oh, no,” said Mme. Storey. “I don’t suppose they left anything

behind.”



“Next to the back bedroom comes the grand stairway,” Jarboe continued,

“and this passage on the left of the stairway leads to the elevator,

and on back to the main service corridor and service stairs.”



We looked into the service corridor.



“Next to the passage comes another guest-room,” Jarboe said,

proceeding; “not occupied at present; and on the north side of the

house is Mr. Henry’s suite, which consists of study and bedroom. The

rooms have been his since his schooldays, and are still kept for him

with all his things, though he has had a private apartment outside for

the past two years.”



It was strange to hear how the perfect butler’s carefully modulated

voice coloured with emotion when he mentioned the darling of the house.



“Mr. Henry is in the house at present,” he went on, “and would, I am

sure, be glad to have you see the rooms if I mentioned it to him.”



“Never mind, thanks,” she said.



“On the third floor,” said Jarboe, like the guide on a sightseers’

‘bus, “there are twenty-five rooms, including several suites for

guests, the housekeeper’s suite, rooms for the maids, and so on. The

footmen sleep in the building across the court, which was once the

stables. Would you wish to go upstairs, Madame?”



“No, thanks,” said my employer dryly. “Jarboe,” she said, in a voice

that arrested his spiel, “there’s a door there in the back corner,

adjoining Mr. Henry’s suite, that you have passed over every time we

have been around? Where does that go?”



“Another stairway,” he said, with an air of great carelessness.



“And where do the stairs go?”



“Just to a passage below.”



“And where does that passage go?”



“Nowhere in particular, Madame, just around the court.”



“Who uses that stair?”



“Nobody uses it now, Madame. What it may have been designated for

originally, I cannot say.”



“Well, let us explore it,” said Mme. Storey.



The butler followed very unwillingly. The straight, narrow stairway

led us into a bare passage with windows looking out on the court. At

the right, this passage ended with a door opening on the main service

hall and stairway; at the left, it turned a corner and continued around

the north side of the court. On this side there was a small door

opening from the passage. My employer, trying it, found it locked.

The dignified butler had a very unhappy air. He said: “That door leads

into the ballroom, Madame. It is used only when there is an

entertainment, to facilitate the service. Shall I send for the key?”



“No matter,” said Mme. Storey, continuing.



The passage ended on this side at a heavy door locked by a spring lock

on our side. That is to say we could open the door, but could not come

back that way without putting it on the latch. The wall we passed

through here was over a foot thick; evidently a party wall. On the

other side of the door the passage turned sharp to the left again.

This part ran on endlessly, and was perfectly dark except for a glimmer

of light through a glass door over a hundred feet away. There were no

doors in it. It was a weird feature to find in a modern house. The

door at the end, we found, gave on the street, but it was ingeniously

masked by a stoop built over it. There was a heavy iron grille

outside, such as they use to protect basement doors. The street we

looked on was one strange to us. However, it was not difficult to

deduce that it was the next cross street to the north of that on which

the public entrances of the Varick house opened. My employer looked at

the disconcerted Jarboe with a smile.



“Jarboe,” she said, “you are the chief servant of this household. How

ridiculous to pretend that you did not know of the existence of this

passage. Why, who sweeps it?”



He spread out his hands in gesture of surrender. “Madame, you must

pardon me. A good servant never betrays the private affairs of his

master. The habit of years was too strong to be broken.”



I thought it rather a neat apology.



“You’re forgiven,” said Mme. Storey, cheerfully. “Now tell me the

history of this passage.”



“It was constructed during the last rebuilding of the house,” said

Jarboe. “The Commodore owns the houses at the back of his property,

and had this passage made under one of them so that he could enter and

leave his house privately. So many people hang about the front door,

newspaper reporters, photographers….”



“Process servers,” put in Mme. Storey slyly.



“My master was a man of blameless life,” said Jarboe with dignity.



“Oh, quite! I don’t blame him. What’s the use of being a millionaire,

if you can’t have a little privacy?”



Jarboe looked relieved. We strolled back.



“Jarboe,” said Mme. Storey, “think before you answer my next question.

The truth is bound to come out and you can best help the family by

assisting me to get at it as quickly as possible…. Did young Mr.

Henry also use this passage?”



Jarboe stumbled in his speech, gulped hard, and finally blurted out.

“Yes, Madame. Mr. Henry was also provided with the two keys necessary

to come in this way.”



“Did his father know about it?”



“I fancy not, Madame. I fancy Mrs. Varick must have procured the keys

for Mr. Henry.”



“Ah! Now, Jarboe, the truth! Did not Mr. Henry come in this way

yesterday for the purpose of seeing his father?”



“No, Madame, no!” he replied agitatedly.



“But couldn’t he have come this way, and gone out again without ever

your seeing him?”



“If he had been in the house I should certainly have heard of it,

Madame. There are servants everywhere, and everything is talked about

among them.”



“That is not quite an answer to my question. Is it not possible that

Mr. Henry came this way yesterday and went out again without your

seeing him?”



“Of course, it is possible, Madame,” said Jarboe, with an unhappy air.





X


By-and-by Jarboe came to the office to say: “Mr. Henry Varick’s

compliments to Madame Storey. He is dining downstairs at half-past

seven, and wishes to know if Madame Storey will do him the honour of

joining him.”



It amused my employer to treat the magnificent Jarboe in an offhand

and facetious manner. “But, Jarboe, I have nothing to wear!” she said.



He never smiled. “Under the circumstances, Madame, I am sure Mr. Henry

will understand.”



“Very well. Tell him that Madame Storey and Miss Brickley will be

happy to join him.”



Jarboe looked a little dubious at the inclusion of my name. However,

he marched off.



“Mr. Henry has decided to take the bull by the horns,” remarked Mme.

Storey to me.



When the hour arrived, my mistress and I went slowly down the sweeping

stairway arm in arm. How I wish I could convey in a phrase the

stateliness of that great house. I think proportion had a lot to do

with it. The height and width of those noble halls upstairs and down

were in exactly the right relation to their length. There were several

footmen in the lower hall in plain evening dress. The astute face of

our man Crider was amongst them. Certainly no time had been lost in

installing and outfitting him. One of the footmen (not Crider)

approached us, saying: “Mr. Henry is in the gold room,” and led the way

across the hall into the middle one of the three great drawing-rooms

that filled the Fifth Avenue side of the house. Our young host came

forward to greet us.



“I have already seen you today,” he said to Mme. Storey, “but I did not

know you. My mother has told me about you now, and what you are doing

for us. It is wonderful of you!”



My employer brought me forward: “My secretary, Miss Brickley.”



I turned hot and cold when he looked at me. He had the bluest eyes I

have ever beheld, blue as the tropical sea. It was perfectly

ridiculous, but the same feeling of helplessness came over me every

time he looked at me. After a courteous greeting, he paid no further

attention to me. Giving an arm to Mme. Storey, he led her through the

state suite.



“It was very good of you to have us downstairs,” she said.



“Oh,” he said, with a painful gesture, “nothing is to be gained by

crying and carrying on about our loss. I’m done with crying now.

Things have got to go on. I ordered dinner downstairs hoping that I

could persuade you to join me. We must become acquainted; we must work

together.”



“Surely,” said Mme. Storey.



I resented her coolness. I was enraged by the thought that she was, as

I thought, trying to bring the murder home to him. God forgive me! I

was jealous of my mistress. Issuing out of the farther drawing-room,

we crossed the great central hall again. The dining-room was opposite.

It was another long and lofty room with a row of windows at the end

that must have looked out on the court. It was dark except for a

cluster of shaded candles on the small table, and another cluster on

the sideboard. The density of the shadows made the lofty ceiling

recede even farther. I felt like an insect under it. Yet, as I

presently learned, this was only the family dining-room. There was a

state dining-room somewhere else.



Mr. Varick put Mme. Storey at his right and me at his left. “I ordered

a small table,” he said, “because the family mahogany is depressing for

so intimate a party. Would you like more light?”



“This is perfect,” said Mme. Storey.



The meal commenced; hors d’oeuvres, soup, fish, and so on. In the

beginning the conversation was merely polite; it seemed to be tacitly

agreed that all painful subjects must be deferred until we had at least

got our food down. Nobody cared about eating, and many things were

sent away untasted. It threatened to go on for ever, until Mme. Storey

said in her brusque and humorous way: “Look here, must we eat any

more?”



“No, no!” he said, rousing himself. He spoke to the footman behind his

chair. “Never mind the game, or dessert. Just fruit, coffee, cognac,

and cigarettes.”



When this was put on the table the servants left the room for good.

Mr. Varick leaned towards my mistress. “Well … what’s the real

situation?” he asked in a strained voice.



She spread out her hands. “I have collected a lot of information, but

I seem to be no nearer a solution. All I have done is to detain the

Princess Cristina.”



“She could hardly have done it!” he said with a half smile. In spite

of grief and fatigue that incorrigible smile was always near the

surface. “She had nothing against the old man. If it had been me,

now.”



“My idea, too,” said Mme. Storey. “But I had to prevent her sailing.”



Quite simply, and with a glint of mirth in his weary eyes, he told us

of his affair with the Princess. To his father his casual frankness

must have seemed scandalous, but it is only the way of the younger

generation. “It was never put up to me in so many words, but of course

I knew they wanted me to marry her. And I was willing; she was easy to

look at. Besides, I wanted to please the old boy; I’ve been a thorn in

his side ever since I grew up. I had made such a mess of my own

affairs always, I thought they might as well have a try at settling

them.



“And so it started. But I soon forgot it was a made-up affair. I had

never known anybody like Cristina. In fact, I got perfectly crazy

about her, though I suppose it didn’t go very deep. But I never let on

to her she had me going; I didn’t dare. For she was a terrible girl,

you know, imperious. Wanted to get her little foot firmly planted on

your neck, and keep you down. Well, not for Joseph! So I just joshed

her. What a delicious little spitfire! We spent the time quarrelling

like devils—and making up. It was a heap of fun. Be cause, you see,

in public she was always very much the Princess, and as soon as we got

alone together, whew! the lid blew off!



“It wasn’t Cristina that I baulked at; I could have tamed the little

termagant, and enjoyed doing it. It was her life, her gang, it was

everything she stood for that stuck in my crop. I don’t know if I can

explain what I mean. That crowd of decayed aristocrats and cast-off

royalties that fluffs around Europe from one expensive resort to

another sponging on millionaires. In a going concern like England, the

King is a real person, but the others are just play-actors. The whole

business of Highnessing them, and going down on your marrow bones, and

slipping them loans on the sly, is a comic sham. Yet my Dad couldn’t

see it. If he could buy lunch for a hereditary Prince he was happy….

Do you know Europe, Madame Storey?”



“I know it,” she said dryly.



“Then I need say no more. By God! that atmosphere would have

suffocated me! I’m an American. I must have air. I must be free to

say my say, and walk out on the show if I don’t like it.”



“Oh, quite!”



“So I saw almost from the first that marriage was out of the question,

and after that I was just out for the fun there was in it. I swear I

never thought Cristina was taking it seriously. A hundred times a day

she called me a boor, a peasant, a barbarian—with trimmings. She said

she’d sooner marry her footman than me. However, since she came to

America, I suppose she did take it seriously. Those girls over there

don’t savvy like ours do. Maybe it’s because they don’t want to. At

any rate, they’re not such good sports. Oh, well, anything I ever

started was bound to turn out badly.”



He swallowed a pony of brandy, and continued: “Where I made my mistake

was in not having it out with the old man in plain words. But it was

impossible to have a thing out with him, unless you both got in a

rip-roaring passion. When I tried to talk to him about it, he turned

it aside. So I just drifted. When we left Europe I thought the scheme

had been dropped. Wrong again! I was soon made to understand by

little things that the match was settled. In short, that I had to

marry the girl. That turned me stubborn and I…” He suddenly broke

off and took another drink.



“You what?” prompted Mme. Storey.



“Oh, I made up my mind I’d be damned if I would!”



This was obviously not what he had started to say. However, my

employer let it pass. “Her coming brought things to a head,” she

suggested.



“Yes,” he said ruefully. “I lit out. But the old man ran me to earth,

and I had to come back. Got here Monday, day before yesterday. We had

it out then with a vengeance. I tried to reason with him, but he

wouldn’t listen. Insisted that I had compromised myself. That made me

laugh. ‘Good God!’ I said, ‘if a fellow had to marry every girl he had

petted, Brigham Young would be nowhere!’ He said, in his stiff way:

‘It is somewhat different when a Princess is involved!’ ‘Princess, my

eye!’ I said; ‘her family was kicked out of that job nearly twenty

years ago!’ We were soon shouting at each other in the old way. He

said I had allowed him to commit himself so far that he couldn’t draw

back, and I said that I didn’t give a damn for his commitments, that I

was the one who had to marry the girl. He mounted his highest horse.

He said that I had to marry the girl, and there was no argument about

it, so then I played…” He suddenly bit his lip, and seized his glass

again.



“Played your trump card?” suggested Mme. Storey.



“No,” he said with an embarrassed smile, “I didn’t have any trumps.

Played my last card, I was going to say. I said I wouldn’t marry her,

and stood pat.”



There was clearly an important omission here, but as Mme. Storey was

not supposed to be examining him, she couldn’t very well take notice of

it. He went on to describe the final scenes of his quarrel with his

father. In doing so he completely forgot himself; his cheeks became

flushed, and his eyes sparkled with remembered anger as he acted the

scene out. “He said he’d cut me off without a cent! And I said go to

it!”



In the middle of this the blue eyes suddenly went blank, and he caught

himself up gasping. “Oh, God! what am I saying! And he lying upstairs

cold!” He sprang up from his chair, and walked away into the shadows.

He leaned his arms against the wall, and dropped his head upon them.

It was terribly affecting.



“However, that has got nothing to do with the tragedy of yesterday,”

said Mme. Storey soothingly.



“No,” he said heavily. He returned and dropped into his chair. All

the light had gone out of his face. He stared before him, fingering a

wine-glass without noticing what he was doing. “That is a complete

mystery,” he murmured. “Surely the doctors must be mistaken. Who

would want to kill my Dad?”



“Did he cut you off?” asked Mme. Storey—though she knew very well.



“Yes,” he said indifferently. “Made a new will yesterday morning.”



“When did you learn that?”



“Just a little while ago, from my mother. The lawyer has talked to

her.”



“How did your father receive you yesterday afternoon?” asked Mme.

Storey in a conversational tone.



I could have shrieked a warning to him, but anyhow it would have come

too late. He fell directly into her trap. “Well, he had quieted down

some,” he said gloomily. “But he wouldn’t let me talk.”



A second later he realised that he had betrayed himself. He lifted a

ghastly face towards my employer.



“How … how did you know I was here yesterday?” he stammered.



“I didn’t know,” she answered. “You have just told me.”



A horrible silence fell upon us three. I was enraged with my mistress.

It didn’t seem like the square thing to do, to accept his invitation to

dine merely for the purpose of entrapping him. On the other hand I

felt a kind of fierce joy in the young man’s desperate situation. It

seemed to bring me a little closer to him. If the whole world abandons

him I will still be his friend! I told myself.





XI


After a while Henry Varick raised his head, and said with a kind of

weary defiance: “Well, suppose I did see my father yesterday afternoon?

What of it?”



“Nothing,” said Mme. Storey mildly. “I am only wondering why you tried

to conceal the fact?”



“Well, I was tempted because it seemed easy to conceal it. I came

through a secret entrance, and I met nobody. Nobody knew I was in the

house except … my mother.”



“And Miss Gilsey,” put in Mme. Storey.



He stared at her again. “You are a terrible woman!” he murmured. “…

Yes, Miss Gilsey saw me come, because she is always with my mother.

But she would not have betrayed me.”



“Nor your mother’s maids?”



“Nor my mother’s maids either. I didn’t notice whether they saw me or

not…. As for my reason for concealing my visit, surely that must be

clear to you. It appears that my father was taken sick a few minutes

after I had left him. Anybody could foresee what a nasty story that

would start. The scapegrace son, and all that. My whole past life

raked up. My object was simply to keep a dirty mess out of the papers.

I had no fear of the outcome. Why, no sensible person would believe

that I had done it. A son does not poison his father! It is

incredible! Am I a monster?”



Mme. Storey expressed no comment.



“And, anyhow,” he went on, “what a fool I would be to make an attempt

on my father’s life when he had just made a will cutting me off!”



“But you did not know that,” she coldly pointed out. “You told me you

had just found it out. Yesterday all you knew was that your father

intended to change his will. On former occasions it had not been

accomplished so quickly.”



The young man pressed his head between his hands. “Oh, God! what a

frightful position I am in!” he groaned.



“Why did you come back yesterday?” asked Mme. Storey.



“For the most natural reason in the world. I had cooled off. I was

sorry for some of the things I had said. I hoped he might be sorry

too.”



“Were you prepared then to accept the Princess?”



“Oh, no! There was no question about that,” he answered quickly. “I

just wanted to say I was sorry. I suppose it won’t be believed, but I

loved my father. Besides, why not confess it? I am only human. I was

worried about the will. I care for money as little as any man, but the

threat that had been held over me was that Theodore Varick, my father’s

nephew, was to get it all, in order to carry on the family

traditions—Oh, my God! The thought that that … excuse me! that he

might be able to crow over me! that snooper! that worm!—he’s not a

man, he’s a water-cooler! Why, for the last five years he’s been

sucking up to my dad, sympathising with him for having such a graceless

son! Gad! once I had the pleasure of smashing his pasty face and I

hope to do it again! Anything to keep Theodore out! I came back

prepared to eat humble pie, to agree to anything short of marrying

myself to that foreign woman.”



“You went direct to your mother’s room?” prompted Mme. Storey.



“Yes.”



“Did you send word to your father that you were in the house?”



“No, indeed, he would only have refused to see me. I went to his

study. I went through all the rooms of the two suites so I wouldn’t

show myself outside.”



“Was the Princess still with him?”



“No, he was alone when we…”



“Who was with you?” interrupted Mme. Storey.



“Nobody,” he said. “A slip of the tongue. I was thinking of my

mother. We had been discussing whether she ought to come with me, but

she didn’t.”



“Now, come,” said my employer with dry good-humour. “Isn’t it a fact

that Mrs. Varick was out of the house altogether at that hour?”



“Well … yes,” he said sullenly. “If you know everything already why

ask me? She was out. Is that important?”



“No,” said Mme. Storey. “Go on.”



“Cristina must have just gone, I could smell her perfume, and my father

was still fussed.”



“That made it more difficult for you then.”



“No, on the contrary, I think he was relieved that the thing was done

with. He treated me pretty decent—for him. Of course, he was pretty

stiff with me, he was never the one to admit he had been wrong. But I

think he showed it a little. At any rate, he didn’t refuse my hand.

He had his tea, and I drank a whisky and soda … Gabbitt must have

found the glass! Was it he who gave me away?”



“No,” said Mme. Storey. “Every servant in the house knew you had been

here, and all of them lied.”



“Well, bless their hearts!” he said with a twisted smile. “I seem to

get everybody in wrong. It would have been better if I’d never been

born!”



“What did your father say to you?” she asked.



“He scolded me for having sneaked into the house secretly. Said it was

very infra dig. He was afraid somebody might find me in his study.

He sent me away, and told me if I would come back after things had

cleared up—by that he meant after Cristina had left the country; she

was not named between us—and would come in by the front door, he

would be glad to see me.”



“He did not refer to the new will he had made?”



“Not a word! He wouldn’t, you see, if he was feeling more kindly

towards me. He would just tear it up afterwards. At any rate, I

thought he had climbed down a good deal, and I went away happy…. At

Buffalo in the middle of the night the telegram was put on the train

that brought me back. And now everything is ruined! My father is

dead, and Theodore has his shoes, I suppose!” His head went down

between his hands again.



“Where were you going on the train?” asked Mme. Storey.



“Nowhere in particular. Just keeping out of the way until Cristina

sailed.”



“How unlucky that there was no witness to the final interview with your

father,” remarked Mme. Storey. It had the sound of a question.



He hesitated for the fraction of a second; his eyes bolted painfully;

then he blurted out: “No, there was no witness.”





XII


Soon afterwards we left the dining-room, and sauntered down the great

hall. Following upon the little outburst of emotion that I have

described, we had assumed the ordinary appearances of good form. It is

instinctive. Nothing in my employer’s manner suggested that Henry

Varick had rendered himself an object of suspicion by his disclosures.

She talked of ordinary matters in an ordinary manner. He answered in

kind, of course, but I could see from his uneasy glances that he did

not know what to make of her. He was wondering whether he had to deal

with an agent of the police who was trying to entrap him, or with a

woman of the world who took everything as it came. As a matter of

fact, my employer was both.



“The library is at the other end,” he said; “it’s a pleasant room.

Let’s go in there.”



It was a most inviting room, but “library” I judged to be a polite

fiction; there were no books visible. Though the spring was well

advanced there was a wood fire burning on the hearth which gave off a

most agreeable warmth. We ranged ourselves before it in luxurious

easy-chairs, and talked like congenial acquaintances, who had nothing

in particular on their minds. This sort of rambling casual

conversation is one of Mme. Storey’s most insidious lines of attack,

and I could see that Henry Varick was growing more and more visibly

uneasy. He must have been under a terrible strain. The only other

light besides the fire was given by a shaded reading-lamp in a corner.



I say we talked, but the truth is they talked, while I sat perfectly

silent, feeding my infatuation with the sight of that handsome young

face in the firelight, haggard with passionate emotion. It was most of

all tragic when he smiled in a reckless boy fashion, trying to carry

things off lightly. I was in a rapt state, scarcely mistress of

myself. It only needed a spark to set me off. While we sat there a

footman came in with a note for Mme. Storey. This I judged must come

from Inspector Rumsey via the underground channel they had provided.

She read it with a bland face, tore it into small pieces, and tossed

them on the fire.



“From Inspector Rumsey,” she said. “He says he can trace no sales of

aconitina recently.”



I guessed that there was more in it than this, and so, apparently did

Henry Varick. He watched the little pieces catch fire one by one with

an expression of baulked curiosity.



More conversation followed. Mme. Storey discussed her work on the case

with apparent frankness. Some time afterwards, long enough anyhow for

us not to connect what she said with the arrival of the note, she

brought the talk around to the plan of the second floor. “In order to

be able to figure out what happened, I must have that clear in my

mind,” she said. “I visited most of the rooms today, but I didn’t like

to go into your suite without having you along.”



There was but one thing that he could reply to this. “Shall we go up

now?”



“If you don’t mind.”



It was rather touching to find in that grand house a simple boy’s room.

I judged that it had been changed very little since Henry Varick was

fifteen or sixteen years old. The school pennants were still tacked on

the walls, and that type of picture that adolescent boys like,

depicting flamboyant misses in sports clothes. There were fencing

foils and masks hung up; a set of boxing gloves; a shotgun, a rifle,

and various sporting trophies. There was an armoire full of baseball

bats, hockey sticks, tennis rackets and like impedimenta. Evidently

young Henry had been no effete son of luxury.



This was the “study,” which like “library” downstairs was a misnomer.

Two shelves, and those not full, contained all the books. Many of them

I noticed dealt with chemistry and drugs. Mme. Storey pulled out a fat

green volume that was entitled: Pharmacology and Therapeutics and

skimmed through it. “Have you consulted this lately?” she asked.



“Not in years,” he said carelessly.



She then did something that I had seen her do before; a simple trick

that has an uncanny effectiveness. Holding the book loosely between

her two hands, she let it fall open of itself. She repeated this two

or three times. “Yet I should say that it has been consulted

recently,” she said quietly, “and more than once. See! It opens of

itself on page 425.”



We looked over her shoulder, he on one side, I on the other, and there

we saw staring at us from the page a chapter heading: XXI—ACONITINE.



It gave me a horrid shock; Henry Varick, too. He stepped back, his

face working spasmodically.



“Well,” he said harshly, “does that prove anything?”



“No,” said Mme. Storey, closing the book and putting it back.



“Anyhow,” he went on, in a loud, strained voice, “I am perfectly

familiar with the action of aconite. I wouldn’t have to consult that

book.” This was an answer that cut both ways. The next object of

interest in the room was a glass fronted curio cabinet that contained

the schoolboy’s collections. One saw the usual things neatly set out

on the shelves; the minerals, the fossils, the arrowheads and pipe

bowls. And on the lower shelves; butterflies, beetles, birds’ eggs and

miscellaneous souvenirs. It was more comprehensive than the usual

youngsters’ gatherings, because this boy had been well supplied with

money. I could picture the handsome, intent stripling arranging his

treasures.



“Where is your collection of drugs?” asked Mme. Storey quietly.



It came like a blow. He caught his breath, and started to answer, but

she checked him with a sudden, involuntary gesture. “Ah, don’t lie to

me!” she said with real feeling. “It shames you and me both. I am to

blame. I will deceive you no longer. The letter that I got from

Inspector Rumsey said: ‘I have learned that Henry Varick while he was

engaged in the drug business caused a collection to be made of samples

of every drug. The samples were contained in a walnut case which was

sent to his home. Presumably the drug aconitina was included amongst

the rest, but I cannot verify this at the moment. See if you can trace

the case.’”



“I wasn’t going to lie to you,” Henry Varick said in his rapid,

strained voice. “I had such a collection, but I destroyed it two years

ago. When the trust busted I was sick of the business. Besides, such

a thing was too dangerous to have lying around.”



It was only too clear that he was lying then. It made me feel sick at

heart.



“How did you destroy it?” asked Madame Storey.



“Burned it up entire in the furnace downstairs.”



She said no more, but led the way into the bedroom adjoining, a bare

and sparsely furnished chamber almost like a hospital room. Amidst the

almost oppressive luxury of that house it was like a breath of fresh

air. In one corner stood a narrow white bed.



Mme. Storey stood in the doorway looking around her without speaking.

Out of the corner of my eye I could see that the face of the young man

beside me was livid and sweating. I suffered with him. Finally, my

employer said in a deadly quiet voice: “Turn down the mattress, Bella.”



A groan was forced from the young man that seemed to come from his very

entrails. “Oh, God! I’m lost!”



With trembling arms I obeyed my mistress. Between mattress and springs

there was revealed a flat square walnut box of the sort that artists

use to carry their paints in. Evidently, it had been hastily thrust

there while a better hiding place was sought, or a chance to destroy it.



“Have you anything to say?” asked Mme. Storey.



He broke into a bitter fleering laughter. “Say? What do you want me

to say? You’ve got a case against me, haven’t you? Better proceed

with it. I guess I’ve reached the point where I’d better keep my mouth

shut without advice of counsel.” This was merely the bravado of one

who was half-crazed.



Meanwhile, I had laid the box on the bed, and let the mattress fall

back into place. The box was locked.



“Have you the key?” asked Mme. Storey.



“What the use?” he cried. “I admit the stuff was there, and it’s gone

now.” Nevertheless, he produced his keys, and sought for the right one.



“Have those keys ever been out of your possession?” she asked.



“No.”



“Was there ever another key?”



“No.”



I could no longer keep still. I was in a state approaching collapse

myself. “You are convicting yourself!” I cried to him.



“Oh, what does it matter?” he said.



My mistress gave me a curious glance of pity. I didn’t want pity from

her. In the condition of mind that I was in, she represented the

enemy. “When did you put it under the mattress?” she asked.



“This afternoon. I intended to burn it tonight when the house was

quiet.”



“Oh, keep still! keep still!” I cried, clasping my hands. Neither paid

any attention to me.



“Where was it before that?”



“In the curio cabinet.”



“Has anybody a key to that cabinet but yourself?”



“No.”



By this time the box was open. It was lined with red velvet, and was

divided into scores of little grooves holding glass phials full of

drugs, stopped with wax or some such substance. Each phial had its

label neatly pasted around it; and as a further precaution, there was a

number under each groove, and an index pasted into the top of the box.

One groove was empty! Under it was the number 63, and our eyes flew

to the index above. We read opposite 63—Aconitina.





XIII


Mme. Storey sent for Jarboe, and Mr. Henry was locked in his bedroom.

The windows looked out upon a stone paved well or court about thirty

feet below, and there was no way he could have escaped short of wings.

However, the house was full of the young man’s friends, and my mistress

telephoned to Inspector Rumsey for a guard to be sent. This man,

Manby, was posted in the outer room of the suite. Jarboe was

heartbroken by this turn of affairs. We took nobody else into our

confidence. When Mrs. Varick learned her son was a prisoner we

expected the devil to pay.



Mme. Storey and I slept in the house. Early next morning the body of

Commodore Varick was privately removed to the family vault in Woodlawn

cemetery, there to await further orders from the police. There had

been no official reading of the will, but everybody in the house now

seemed to know what it contained. The Commodore had created a great

trust fund of which his wife was to be sole beneficiary during her

lifetime. Upon her death the fortune was to be divided into three

equal parts, of which one was to go to the New York Hospital, one to

the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and one to Yale University. Mr.

Henry’s worst fear was not realized inasmuch as Mr. Theodore Varick’s

name did not appear.



In describing the dramatic scenes that took place inside the house, I

must not omit mention of the efficient, but quite unspectacular spade

work that was going on outside. There was a small army of operatives

engaged on the case. To ensure secrecy, Inspector Rumsey had agreed

that, at any rate for the first twenty-four hours, our men should be

principally used on this work. Every move of Dr. Slingluff’s and Miss

Priestley’s was shadowed. On Miss Gilsey we could get no line because

she lived in the house, and had never left it since the murder. The

valet, Gabbitt, and indeed, all the servants in the house were picked

up whenever they went out. Frequent reports from these operatives

reached Mme. Storey under cover to Mrs. Varick.



In addition to these outside men, our best operative, Crider, was

installed as a footman inside the house. Crider’s work however,

resulted in nothing. He complained that from the very first, every

servant in the house was aware of who he was, and became mum in his

presence. This looked as if Jarboe had played us false, since none but

he knew where Crider had come from. By a clever piece of detective

work the police had established that the first anonymous letter (the

one addressed to Inspector Rumsey) had been mailed in a pillar box on

Lexington Avenue somewhere between 36th and 42nd Streets shortly before

eleven on Tuesday night; whereas the second letter (addressed to Mme.

Storey) had been dropped in a chute at the branch post office in the

Grand Central Station at 3.30 on Wednesday afternoon. The peculiarly

formed characters had aided in the tracing of these letters.



A report had been received from the chemists to whom Commodore Varick’s

medicines had been sent the day before. It was to the effect that they

contained nothing but what was represented on the labels; the first, a

tincture of digitalis of the usual strength; the second, capsules

containing a simple compound of pepsin and bismuth.



Mme. Storey and I established ourselves in Commodore Varick’s office.

My mistress dictated to me some notes she had taken of an examination

of one of the maids while I was busy elsewhere. This maid, Nellie

Hannaford by name, had removed the tea things from the Commodore’s

study. Hannaford said she met nobody in the Commodore’s suite. She

said that Gabbitt had already been sent for to come to his master, but

there were three doors between her and the Commodore’s bedroom, and she

saw nothing, or heard nothing that led her to suppose the master had

been taken sick. In fact, she hadn’t heard anything about his sickness

until after he was dead.



She said she found on the study table two empty cups that had contained

tea, and another cup in the service pantry full of tea that had been

made and not drunk. Four of the tea balls had been used, indicating

that four cups of tea had been made. The cups belonged to a tea

service that was kept in the Commodore’s suite, and it was her duty to

wash them in the pantry, and return them to the shelves. She denied

having found a glass that had contained whisky and soda. (In making

this statement we supposed she was lying.)



“Who could the third cup of tea have been for?” I asked involuntarily.



“Think, Bella,” said my employer with a smile. “Surely it was obvious

when we questioned Henry Varick last night, that he did not go to his

father’s study alone. Mrs. Varick was out of the house, remember.”



The picture of a lovely blue-eyed face rose before my mind’s eye, a

face stony with distress. Estelle Gilsey! I thought in amazement.

Another one! Good Heavens! this young man was entangled amongst women

like a horseman in a thicket! While we were still engaged in routine

work Miss Priestley entered the room. The tall dark girl still had

faintly the look of one suffering from shock. Her curious parrot-like

utterance carried out the idea. What she said seemed to have no

relation to the remote, sombre glance of her dark eyes. It was her

room that we were working in, and Mme. Storey apologised politely.



“Oh,” said Miss Priestley with a gesture, “I scarcely know what right

I have here now that the Commodore is gone. The bottom has fallen

out of everything. It is just a blind instinct that brings me back to

finish his work as far as I can…. I will carry it into the study if

I am in your way.”



“No, indeed!” said Mme. Storey. “If anybody moves, it shan’t be you.

At present we are only engaged in routine work.”



Lighting a cigarette, my employer leaned back in her chair, and started

chatting with the girl in offhand, friendly fashion. She told Miss

Priestley many of the details of the case that had come to light

overnight, but not the more important developments. And then,

characteristically, she graduated by insensible degrees from the act of

giving information into that of seeking it.



“I expect that will be a very interesting book,” she remarked, with a

nod towards the pile of typescript that the secretary had taken from a

drawer.



“Oh, yes!” said Miss Priestley; “the Commodore was acquainted with all

of the most eminent persons of his time.”



“And, of course, his end will give the book a tragic interest now.”



“Oh, don’t!” said the girl with one of her curious wooden gestures.

“It is too dreadful to reflect that what you say is true!”



“Is it nearly finished?” asked Mme. Storey.



“Yes. I shall be able to bring it up to the end of 1918. That will

include all the most interesting parts of the Commodore’s life.”



“How long had he been working on it?”



“Since last May. It is just a year since he engaged me to help him

with it.”



“A year!” said Mme. Storey. “Bless me! Isn’t that a long time to take

in writing a book? I understood that books were written overnight

nowadays.”



“Not this one,” said the girl patting the sheets. “The Commodore took

the greatest pains in polishing his style…. Besides, you must

remember that he was a man of many engagements. He could not spare

very much time to it.”



“Did he work on it when he was in Europe last winter?”



“No. He had no intention of doing so. The script was left at home.”



“What did you do during that time?”



“I stayed at home. The Commodore was good enough to pay me my salary

while he was away. I was so familiar with the work that he wished to

be sure of getting me to go on with it when he returned.”



“Was Mr. Henry interested in this work of his father’s?”



“I can hardly say that he was interested in it. Mr. Henry is not very

literary.”



“But he knew that it existed?”



“Oh, yes. He was in and out of the house all last summer at

Easthampton while we were working on it. A reconciliation took place

between Mr. Henry and his father in June, and he stayed a month with

us.”



The conversation was rudely broken off at this point. If my

description of the plan of the house was clear, it will be remembered

that the room beyond the Commodore’s office was Mr. Henry’s study.

There was a door between, but it was not used. I suppose it had been

locked when the rooms were first divided into suites. From the next

room we heard a suppressed shriek. Mme. Storey and I both jumped to

our feet, but Miss Priestley was before us. That strange girl, as if

electrified by the sound, was out of the door like a flash and in

through the next door, Mme. Storey and I making a bad second and third.

In Mr. Henry’s study the situation could be read at a glance. The

detective stood barring the way to the bedroom door. Facing him stood

Estelle Gilsey frozen with horror, one hand clapped over her mouth as

if to still an incontrollable need to shriek. A black dress emphasized

the fragility of her fair beauty. She turned to my mistress.



“He won’t let me in!” she gasped. “… He is a policeman! … Henry is

arrested…!”



Before my mistress could answer her Miss Priestley spoke. The dark

girl held herself like a very Juno then, her handsome face icy with

scorn. Her self-control was in very odd contrast to her mad dash out

of the room just now. Verily, as I knew to my cost, a woman’s

infatuation leads her to cut strange capers! I perceived in Julia

Priestley still another victim. She said with a superb air of scorn:

“What are you doing here?”



The blonde girl beyond half a glance paid no attention to her. She

repeated her agonised question of my mistress: “Is he arrested?”



“What are you doing in his room?” reiterated Miss Priestley. “In his

bedroom? Have you no shame?”



Miss Gilsey turned on her then. It appeared that the blue eyes could

flash sparks, too. “What business is it of yours?” she demanded.



“You would not have dared while the Commodore was alive!” cried the

other girl. “His body has scarcely been carried out of the house. You

are shameless!”



“Be quiet!” cried the blonde girl, stamping her foot. “Everybody knows

what’s the matter with you!”



What a scene! It appeared that the delicate little thing could show

her claws, too. We are indeed all alike under our skins. My mistress

was taking it all in with a sphinx-like regard. To add to the

confusion Mr. Henry began to pound on the other side of the bedroom

door. “Let me out! Let me out!”



Mme. Storey nodded to the detective, who thereupon opened the door.

Henry Varick seemed to catapult out of the inner room. He had eyes for

none of us except Miss Gilsey. He seized her in his arms. “Oh, my

darling!” he murmured.



She, too, forgot the world. Her arms wreathed themselves around his

neck. “Henry! … Henry…!” she murmured. I thought she was about to

faint.



So it was revealed at last which one among the many girls young Henry

favoured. I experienced no feeling of jealousy against Estelle Gilsey.

In the first place, I had seen from the beginning that there was some

sort of an understanding between them, and anyhow, in my crazy

infatuation there was no thought of self. I cannot say as much for

Julia Priestley. She surveyed this scene with cold and amused scorn,

but the rising and falling of her breast betrayed the inner tempest.

She uttered two words: “Good comedy!”



That drew Henry’s attention to her. When he perceived who it was he

dropped his girl as if she had been red hot. He flushed and then

paled, and a craven look came into his face that was very painful to

see if you were fond of him. The tall girl seemed taller still,

regarding him like an empress with flashing eyes. He could not face

the situation. He turned and fled back into his bedroom.



Estelle made as if to follow him. “Henry!” she gasped. But at that

moment there was a knock on the outer door, and she stopped. Strange

it was to see how we all drew masks over our faces. There was one

thing all were agreed upon in that house; to hush things up. Estelle

allowed the detective to lock the bedroom door. Meanwhile, Mme. Storey

opened the other. It was Jarboe, showing an anxious face. Evidently

he had heard something, but had succeeded in keeping the other servants

off. Mme. Storey reassured him with a word, and he went away again.



But the interruption had put a permanent quietus on the scene. Both

girls had had time to reflect on the danger of giving too much away.

Each was now elaborately ignoring the other. As soon as Jarboe was out

of the way, the tall beauty marched out of the room with her head up,

and, as you might say, all colours flying. When she disappeared the

little blonde’s head went down, and she began to shake. She struggled

hard to get a grip on herself, but couldn’t make it. Apparently she

thought it was useless to ask to see Henry again. With her face

working incontrollably, she suddenly darted for the outer door.



Mme. Storey detained her for a moment. “Keep the secret from Mrs.

Varick as long as possible,” she said. “Don’t return to her until you

can show a smooth face.”



The girl nodded her head mutely, and flew. When we returned to the

next room the other one, extraordinary creature! was tapping away at

her typewriter as if she had never left it.





XIV


The next thing that happened was the arrival of Inspector Rumsey at the

Varick house. It transpired that Mme. Storey had sent for him before I

was up. He arrived in a closed car by way of the courtyard. We three

retired into the Commodore’s study to consult.



“I must yield up my responsibility in this case,” said Mme. Storey at

once.



“Hey?” said the Inspector, very much startled. “What’s the matter?”



“The situation here grows worse and worse,” said my employer, “and I

cannot any longer be responsible to the police. It ties my hands. It

forces me to act in a manner counter to my best judgment.”



“But you have full liberty of action,” he protested.



“No, I have not. Sit down, and let me tell you the whole situation,”

which she proceeded to do. I helped out by reading portions of the

notes I had taken.



When she had come to an end the Inspector shook his head heavily.

“Bad! Bad!” he said. “I quite understand your feelings. But my duty

is clear, of course. I must arrest Henry Varick.”



“That is what I expected you to say,” said Mme. Storey with a faint

smile; “and that is why I must wash my hands of you. Because _I am not

satisfied that Henry Varick poisoned his father_.”



My heart jumped for joy hearing her say this. I felt that I had found

my dear mistress again. I blamed myself for having doubted even a

moment that her heart was in the right place.



“But,” protested the Inspector, “Commodore Varick died of a dose of

aconite; his son was the last person to be with him before he was taken

sick; by his own admission he had eaten and drunk with his father; and

Henry Varick had the aconite. Why, it’s a prima facie case!”



“Not quite,” said my employer. “And anyhow, I don’t care if it is or

not. I may say that there is even more damaging evidence against Henry

Varick. I know it is there, though I have not yet brought it out. It

wouldn’t make any difference. All the evidence in the world would not

satisfy me.”



“You are illogical,” complained the Inspector.



Mme. Storey arose and tossed her hands up. “Ah, there’s the rub!” she

cried. “There’s the old point of division between you and me. You

work by logic, my friend, and I by intuition. Oh, everybody is on your

side—everybody except Bella here, who is just another silly woman and

doesn’t count—lawyers, judges, juries and the great public, all on

your side, all they think of is evidence. It’s absurd the importance

they attach to evidence, which is the most unreliable thing in the

world.”



“You can’t take intuition into a court of law,” said the Inspector.



“So much the worse for the court,” she retorted. “That’s why so many

trials are solemn farces. And look at the work it makes for me! Three

quarters of my time, I suppose, is spent in digging up ‘evidence’ to

prove what anybody can see is so at a glance!”



It was impossible to tell whether she was speaking quite seriously or

not. This was an old subject of dispute between her and the Inspector.



He said: “Well, to return to Henry Varick; what makes you suspect he

may not have done it?”



“The whole character of the man, and all the former acts of his life so

far as they have come to light.”



“I can’t go with you there!” said the Inspector. “My whole experience

teaches me that murder crops out in the most unexpected places.”



I saw a retort spring to my mistress’s lips, but she withheld it, for

fear, I suppose, of hurting our old friend’s feelings. She said:

“Granted. I base my opinion of Henry Varick’s innocence on what I have

observed of him during the past twenty-four hours. On what he said; on

the way he looked when he said it; and on the tones of his voice.

There are men, of course, who can simulate anything, but he is not one

of them. He is just an ordinary, scatterbrained, impulsive young

fellow, who has been a little spoiled by too much kindness—especially

from our sex; and who has never taken serious thought of anything in

his life.”



“I have not had the advantage of seeing him,” said the Inspector dryly.

He thought that Mme. Storey had fallen a victim to the young man’s

charm like all the other women.



It did not escape her. “It is true, what you are thinking of,” she

said with a laugh. “I am crazy about him. But, letting that go for

the moment, consider his actions. A murder by poison, of course, is

not committed in the heat of passion; it requires planning. If he

planned this out, is it reasonable to suppose that he would go off to

Buffalo, and leave that tell-tale cabinet of drugs here in the house?”



“They always forget something.”



“Surely! But not the thing.”



“Does your intuition suggest who did commit this murder?” he asked

dryly.



“I may have my notions,” she said, “but I do not intend to speak of

them until I have dug up the necessary evidence.”



“How long will that take you?”



“How can I tell?” she said, spreading out her hands. “I may never get

it. Lots of things which are as plain as the nose before your face

cannot be proven.”



“What is the additional evidence against Henry Varick that you spoke

of?” he asked. “I suppose I have the right to ask for that.”



“Oh, assuredly!” she said, turning away with a gesture. “But it’s so

painful! so very painful! However, all must come out, of course.” She

turned back. “Will you promise me not to allow this last disclosure to

reach Henry Varick’s ears for a week?”



“But why?” he demanded.



“Simply because it would break his heart.”



“Oh, very well,” he said, a little nettled. He thought we had both

lost our heads over the young man.



“Let us find out if Dr. Slingluff is in the house,” said Mme. Storey.

“He has been making frequent visits to Mrs. Varick.”



My heart began to beat as soon as this name was mentioned. From the

first I had suspected that the secret was in the possession of the

family doctor. Gabbitt was despatched to find him. Within five

minutes he returned, having the handsome, dignified practitioner in

tow. Mme. Storey introduced the two men to each other. As soon as he

learned that he was facing a police officer, Dr. Slingluff began to

sweat. He was such a nice looking man that it was painful to see. My

employer wasted no time in beating around the bush. She said: “Doctor,

we had a painful interview yesterday, and a still more painful one is

before us. It was perfectly evident to me yesterday that you were—if

you will excuse me, lying! It may have been from the highest motives,

but it was nevertheless—lying!”



He puffed out his cheeks. “Madam!” he cried, “Your sex protects you.

No man would dare…”



“Why become angry?” she interrupted with a smile. “If I am wrong you

can afford to laugh at me.”



He subsided.



“What the Inspector and I want to know is,” she went on, “why you

signed that certificate as you did, when you knew that Commodore Varick

had been poisoned.”



“I did not know it!” he cried. “I have already told you…”



“Now, doctor,” she said cajolingly, “with your skill, your vast

experience, you cannot expect us to believe that.”



“I don’t care whether you believe it or not!” he cried. “It’s true!”



“You’re a naturally truthful man,” said Mme. Storey, “and lying like

everything else to be successful requires practice.” She pointed to a

little diamond-shaped mirror that was let into the top of the

escritoire. “Look at yourself in the glass, doctor. If you saw that

face upon another would you not say that the man behind it was lying?”



He would not look, of course, but strode away, cursing under his breath.



“Consider a moment,” she went on. “I am your friend because I believe

that you are actuated by the highest motives. Won’t you fare better

with me than you would with a bawling lawyer in open court? You can’t

get away with this. If you persist in trying to do so, an inevitable

public humiliation awaits you.”



He dropped in a chair and flung up his hands. “Very well,” he said, “I

was lying! … Oh, God! what a relief!” He wiped his face and forehead

with his handkerchief.



“Why did you lie?” asked Mme. Storey.



“Because the Commodore asked me to. He was my oldest friend.”



“Asked you to!” interpolated the Inspector in astonishment.



“The moment I clapped eyes on the Commodore I saw that he had been

poisoned,” said Dr. Slingluff. “I suspected aconite owing to the

intolerable prickling of the skin of which he complained. No other

poison gives rise to that symptom. I sent Gabbitt on the run to my

office for atropine, but I saw that it was too late for atropine or

anything else. My real reason was to get the man out of the room

because I saw my friend had something of a private nature to say to me.

He took one of my hands between his; he was perfectly conscious, but I

had to stoop low to hear him. He said: ‘Fred, I have been poisoned!’

I nodded. He said with an agonised look of entreaty in his eyes: ‘Keep

it a secret, Fred. It rests with you. Oh, God! don’t let me die with

the fear of disgrace and horror on me!’ And so I promised, and a look

of relief came into his dying eyes. Could I have acted differently?”



“Certainly not,” said Mme. Storey. “But was that all?”



“That was all.”



“You’re an enlightened man,” she said, “you’re the sort of man, I take

it, who reserves the right to think and to act for himself on all

occasions.”



“I hope so,” said Doctor Slingluff.



“Well, wouldn’t it be consistent with your idea of what is right to

give such a promise to a dying man to ease his death, and then break it

afterwards if the public interest demanded?”



He saw that he was in a trap, and refused to answer.



“You see,” said Mme. Storey mildly, “you have not yet told me why you

lied.”



Silence from the doctor.



“Commodore Varick also, was a man of the world,” she went on, “he must

have known that in asking such a thing of you, he was asking you to

betray your professional reputation, your duty to the State. Didn’t he

appear to be aware of this?”



“No,” said Dr. Slingluff.



“Didn’t he give any reason for making such a request?”



“No!”



“Didn’t he,” Mme. Storey asked very softly, “didn’t he tell you who

poisoned him?”



The same symptoms of extreme agitation appeared in the doctor’s candid

face but he said, as before: “No!”



Mme. Storey sighed. She said: “It may help to clarify the situation if

I tell you that Henry Varick has been under arrest since last night.

We have built up a strong case against him.”



Doctor Slingluff started up out of his chair, and dropped back again in

a heap. His eyes seemed to start out of his head in horror. Then he

covered his face. “Henry arrested!” he groaned. “Then everything is

over!”



“You see there is no further occasion for lying,” said my mistress

gently.



“No!” he murmured wretchedly. “No! God help us!”



“What were Commodore Varick’s last words to you before he died?” asked

Mme. Storey.



“He said,” came the husky reply, “he said … ‘Henry poisoned me.’”



I pass over my private feelings at that moment. The others shared them

at least to some degree, I fancy. As Mme. Storey had said, the

situation was too painful. After the stricken doctor had left the

room, Inspector Rumsey turned to my employer in a kind of amazement.

“And you knew it all the time?” he said. “You knew what was coming?”



“Yes, I knew it,” she said soberly, “in a way.”



“How could you have known it?”



“By intuition. There was no other way of accounting for the doctor’s

agony of mind yesterday when I questioned him.”



“Can you still tell me that you are not satisfied as to this young

man’s guilt?” demanded the Inspector.



“I am not satisfied,” said Mme. Storey stoutly. “In this latest

disclosure there is merely an emotional effect, there is no proof. You

are crushed by the horror of that father’s death, believing that his

son had poisoned him. Suppose he was mistaken?”



“Impossible!”



“Suppose the Commodore had taken several substances into his mouth

about that time, how could he know which might have contained the

poison?”



“By the remembered taste afterwards.”



“It may have been disguised.”



“You are simply hoping against hope,” said Inspector Rumsey. “My duty

is clear. I must take Henry Varick down to headquarters.”



Mme. Storey spread out her hands in surrender.





XV


However, Henry Varick was not taken away just then. Mme. Storey said;

“Before we part company in this case, Inspector…”



He interrupted her in great concern: “Part company?”



“Well, hereafter, I suppose you will be for the prosecution and I for

the defence. But let us try one last expedient together with a view to

discovering the truth.”



“What do you propose?” he asked.



“You are familiar with the criminal procedure in France and Italy,” she

answered; “how they bring accused and accusers face to face in the

court room, and let them shout at each other, the idea being that the

truth will somehow reveal itself in spite of them. It’s not a perfect

method, but it has its points; if there must be shouting in court it

seems more reasonable to let the principals do it than their hired

lawyers, as we arrange it over here. I propose that we have Henry

Varick and his accuser in here together.”



“But his father was his accuser,” objected the Inspector, “and he is

dead.”



“He has another accuser,” said Mme. Storey. “Telephone to Manby to

fetch him in here, and I’ll produce her.”



He did so. Meanwhile Mme. Storey went to the door into the office.

When she opened it one could hear the uninterrupted tapping of the

typewriter within. She said: “Miss Priestley, will you be good enough

to come in here for a moment.”



The secretary entered with a look of polite surprise. Inspector

Rumsey’s eyes opened at the sight of her, and that indefinable change

took place in him that one always sees in a man upon the entrance of

beauty. My heart began to beat again, foreseeing another painful

scene. I wished myself away from there, for I felt that I had had

about all I could bear.



A moment later Henry Varick was brought in. The detective was sent

back to wait until he was called for again. Henry knew by instinct, I

suppose, that the stranger in the room was a police official, and a

desperate look came into his eyes. When he saw Julia Priestley also,

he changed colour, and looked around him wildly like a trapped

creature. All this created a very unfavourable impression on the

Inspector. Guilty! his look said just as clearly as if he had

enunciated the word. But good heavens! the unfortunate young man was

half mad with grief and terror. How could he have looked any

differently? If I had been in his place, I should have looked just the

same. So far as I could see, Miss Priestley never looked at him.



“Sit down,” said Mme. Storey to Miss Priestley. My employer had

assumed a bland and smiling air that might have concealed anything.



Henry was not invited to take a chair, but he did so anyway, not having

become accustomed as yet to being treated as an inferior. So there we

were, the five of us. We were grouped around a table at the end of the

room farthest from the fireplace. It was the same table upon which tea

had been served two days before—the Commodore’s last meal. The

Inspector was seated directly at the table, and myself a little behind

him. My mistress had told me not to produce a notebook, so I had

nothing to do but sit with my hands in my lap and look on. Mr. Henry

had his back to the windows, and Miss Priestley was across the room.

Mme. Storey was between them, but she did not remain in one position,

frequently rising to pace back and forth.



She said to Miss Priestley with her blandest air: “I asked you in,

knowing your great interest in this matter. Our labours are completed

for the moment. It would not be proper for me to say that Mr. Henry

Varick is guilty, but our case against him is complete. He is about to

be arrested.”



A haunted look came into the young man’s face as he listened to this.

It seemed like gratuitous cruelty on the part of my mistress, but it

was all part of her plan.



“Inspector Rumsey and I want to thank you for the great assistance you

have rendered us,” she said.



The girl started. “I don’t understand you,” she said.



“I am referring to the two letters you wrote,” said Mme. Storey. “One

to Inspector Rumsey and one to me. The first started this

investigation, and the second directed it into the right channel.”



This was a surprising piece of news to me, and, likewise, to the

Inspector. But both of us looked as if we had known it all along.



“I wrote no such letters,” said Miss Priestley with an air of great

astonishment.



“Oh, I quite understand your reasons for wishing to keep in the

background,” said Mme. Storey with a friendly smile. “They do you

credit. But unfortunately we need you for a witness.”



The girl shook her head with a mystified air. “What reason have you to

suppose that I wrote the letters you speak of?” she asked.



Mme. Storey went to the escritoire, and unlocked the drawer that I had

seen her lock on the day before. From it she took the sheet of paper

she had then put away. There was a slip clipped to it that she

detached. “This appears to be a sketch for a title page to Commodore

Varick’s book,” she said. “As soon as I saw the lettering I recognised

the same hand that had written the two anonymous notes. There is just

as much character in block letters, of course, as in written ones. You

have a taste for lettering, I see. The characters are formed with

care.”



Miss Priestley did not turn a hair. Glancing at the paper, she said

with a smile: “I am sorry for the truth of your deductions, but that

sketch was made by Commodore Varick, not by me.”



“That can hardly be,” said my employer, still most polite, “because

this slip was pinned to it. I read upon it: ‘Here is a sketch I have

made. I hope you like it.’ And signed with your initials: J. P.”



“Oh, then I have made a mistake,” said the girl with the utmost

coolness. “So many sketches were made at different times; some by the

Commodore and some by me…. However, I know nothing about any

anonymous letters.”



“Ah, you can’t be allowed to keep modesty in the background,” said Mme.

Storey smiling. “In the net of espionage we have spread you had to be

included, of course, and we know all about your movements during the

past thirty-six hours. You live in an apartment on Lexington Avenue at

Thirty-Seventh Street. From a hall boy there we have learned that you

went out about nine-thirty on Tuesday night, returning in a moment or

two with a newspaper. The incident was fixed in the boy’s mind,

because he wondered why you hadn’t sent him for it. The late editions

that night carried the first news of Commodore Varick’s death. When

you read that his death had been ascribed to natural causes, you feared

that the ends of justice would be defeated, and you wrote the first

letter. You came out with it a half-hour or so later, and again the

hall boy wondered why you didn’t let him post it. But you had a very

good reason, of course. It was addressed to Inspector Rumsey at Police

Headquarters. Through the post office we have established that that

letter was posted on Lexington Avenue somewhere between Thirty-Sixth

Street and Forty-Second, and was taken up in the eleven o’clock

collection.”



Miss Priestley listened to this with an enigmatic smile. It was all a

mystery to Henry Varick, of course. He sat forward in his chair

listening with strained anxiety.



“The second letter we can bring even closer to you,” Mme. Storey went

on. “You will remember you and I were talking in the next room about

half-past two yesterday, when the name of the Princess Cristina was

suddenly injected into the case, and I went tearing off to find her.

Again you thought the real criminal was likely to escape, and you sat

down and wrote the second note. You left this house at 3.10, somewhat

earlier than your custom. You were picked up by a detective and

followed. You entered the branch post office in the Grand Central

Station, and dropped a letter in a chute. My operative could not see

the address; however the post office has reported to us that the second

anonymous letter was received through a chute in that post office and

cancelled at 3.30.”



“Well, I give in,” said the girl with a calm gesture. “I didn’t want

to appear in this horrible case, but I see it is inevitable.”



“Inspector Rumsey and I have only one question to ask you,” said Mme.

Storey. “How did you know that Commodore Varick had been poisoned?”



“I didn’t know it,” she said quickly, “I only suspected it.”



“Your first note stated it as a fact.”



“I know. I thought an investigation ought to be made. I thought that

would be the best way of bringing it about.”



“Oh, quite. What made you suspect that he had been poisoned?”



Miss Priestley hesitated. She glanced fleetingly at Henry through her

lashes. “Ought he to be present when I am telling these things?” she

asked.



Mme. Storey looked at the Inspector in seeming concern. A glance of

intelligence passed between them which the girl could not have seen.

“How about it, Inspector?” my employer asked. “Is it proper for him to

hear this?”



“Oh, yes,” said the Inspector with a judicial air. “A man is always

entitled to hear what he is charged with.”



I doubted very much if this was the usual practice; however, the girl

could have known no better. She resumed with the air of one

conscientiously performing a disagreeable duty: “Mr. Henry knew all

about poisons. I knew that he had a collection of dangerous poisons.

In the past I had heard him talk about poisoning people…”



“Oh, no!” cried Henry in a shocked voice.



The girl looked at Mme. Storey. “I knew this was going to be painful,”

she murmured.



“Let me explain!” cried Henry desperately. “It is true that I have

talked to her about poisons. I have described to her how men would die

after having taken different poisons; aconite, strychnine, arsenic and

so on; but I never proposed to poison anybody!”



“It is not important,” said Mme. Storey smoothly. “The fact that you

had talked about poisons is not sufficient in itself to have aroused

her suspicions.” She turned to the girl. “How did you know that Mr.

Henry had been in the house on Tuesday afternoon?”



“I saw him,” was the calm reply. She went on: “In my anxiety to keep

out of all this, I suppressed part of the truth yesterday. I did not,

as I then told you, go downstairs as soon as I had admitted the

Princess to the Commodore’s study. I went into the office where I had

some work to finish. A few minutes later I heard the rumble of a man’s

voice in this room. I was greatly astonished, because I had not heard

the Princess leave, and I knew that the Commodore had no other

appointment. In fact, I was alarmed. We all considered it a part of

our duty to protect the Commodore from possible intruders. I went to

the door between the two rooms and opened it a crack. I saw Mr. Henry

in here.”



“Was he alone with his father?”



A pinched look came into the girl’s face. “No,” she said stiffly,

“Miss Gilsey was here too—if that is her name.”



“Ha!” cried the Inspector.



“I told you that,” said Mme. Storey.



“But you only surmised it. This is direct evidence.”



My mistress smiled. To the girl she said: “Please describe what you

saw in this room.”



“Oh, as soon as I saw it was a family matter I closed the door,” she

said. “I had only the briefest glimpse.”



“What did that glimpse show you?”



“As I opened the door I heard the Commodore saying: ‘Not a cent! Not a

cent! Let the marriage be annulled and I’ll settle!’”



Mr. Henry started up. “My father never said that!” he cried.



“Please be silent!” commanded the Inspector.



“What marriage did he refer to?” asked Mme. Storey.



“The marriage between Mr. Henry and Miss Gilsey.”



The young man dropped his head between his hands. “I wanted to keep

her out of this!” he groaned.



“Oh, they’re married, are they?” said my mistress coolly.



The girl’s nostrils became pinched again. “He said they were. But

that was on the day before. On Monday afternoon Mr. Henry saw his

father alone, and they had a violent quarrel. They talked so loud I

could hear a good deal in my room. Mr. Henry told his father then that

he was married to Miss Gilsey. I don’t know if it’s true, or if he

just said so to get out of the match with the Princess. At any rate

the Commodore was infuriated because he looked upon Miss Gilsey as an

adventuress. He told his son not to expect a cent from him, and

ordered him out of the house.”



“That was on Monday,” said Mme. Storey; “now, returning to Tuesday,

what did you see when you looked in this room?”



“They were grouped around the tea-table—this table. As it happened it

was just in line with the crack of the door. The Commodore had that

moment risen, and was walking away towards the window there. His back

was therefore turned to me. Mr. Henry was standing between me and the

table, and his back was towards me. Miss Gilsey was seated at the

table with the tea-tray before her, and I could see her face….” The

girl hesitated.



“Well?” prompted Mme. Storey.



Miss Priestley was breathing quickly. “Nothing happened,” she said

with a jerky gesture. “Nothing that I could swear to on the

witness-stand. It was just a glimpse…. I saw her give him an

extraordinary look. His hands were hidden from me … but he bent over

the table a little … it seemed to me that the movements of his arms

were suspicious … that’s all.”



It was a horribly vivid picture that she called up. I think we all

shuddered. Mr. Henry’s face was hidden.



“And from that you thought…?” Mme. Storey prompted further.



“Well, taken in connection with what had happened the day before,” said

Miss Priestley. “I knew that Mr. Henry feared the will was going to be

changed. As a matter of fact it had already been changed, but he could

not have known of that. I supposed that he had brought the girl along

in a final effort to soften the Commodore’s heart, and when that failed

he was rendered desperate.”



“Quite!” said Mme. Storey.





XVI


It seemed as if Mme. Storey’s plan to confront them would come to

nothing, owing to Henry Varick’s having been utterly crushed by the

girl’s statement. He sat with his elbows on his knees, and his head

pressed between his hands. In order to stir him up, the Inspector said

in a rasping voice: “Have you nothing to say, sir?”



The young man started to his feet with a wild, despairing face. “What

she says is nearly true,” he cried; “but just that little difference

makes all the difference between life and death to me!”



“You may question her if you wish,” said Mme. Storey.



He quieted down. “I don’t want to question her,” he said, “but I want

to tell her something.” He approached the girl, looking at her

steadily. Something new had come into his face, something firm and

fine; it was the look of a man brought to the last extremity of grief

and danger, who is suddenly lifted out of himself.



“Julia, is it worth it?” he said.



She was shrinking away from him with a look of repulsion. “Do I have

to submit to this?” she murmured, appealing to Mme. Storey.



“It is his right to break down your story, if he can,” said my mistress.



The girl drew a long breath, and stiffened herself. “He can’t do

that,” she said confidently, “because I have said nothing but the

simple truth. But let him try.” She sat down in the same chair that

she had before occupied, and met Henry’s glance with a cold smile.



This time his eyes did not quail from hers. “Julia,” he went on, in a

low, moved voice, “I’m sorry for the way I treated you. I am a coward

where women are concerned. I can’t bear to hurt them. Ever since I

grew up it seems I have been running away from women. And that only

made matters worse, of course. I wouldn’t face things out. But now I

must face things out. If only for once I could find the right words to

express the truth! Julia, I treated you badly. Must I die for that?”



He paused, searching her face to see if his words had had any effect.

How she was able to withstand the appeal in those deep blue eyes, I

could not comprehend. The only sign of emotion she gave was to rise

suddenly, and press herself against the wall, as if to get as far as

possible from him. Her face was like marble.



“You know that this story you have told will send me to the chair,” he

resumed. “It’s so nearly true that you can tell it with an easy

conscience. But is it worth it? In your heart you know that I am

incapable of killing my father. You know me! Why, the whole trouble

between us arose from the fact that I was too tender-hearted and

easy-going, and you were ambitious. You scorned me, remember, because

I hadn’t the heart to whip a puppy at Easthampton that had nipped me.”



I cannot hope to convey in print the moving quality of that grave,

young voice, low and shaken in tone. I know the tears were rolling

unchecked down my cheeks, and I could see that both the Inspector and

my mistress were affected. But the girl listened with a twisted smile

in her white face; the smile of one who would die sooner than give in.



“You are mistaken if you think I lied when I told you I loved you,” he

continued. “Your beauty laid a spell on me. I worshipped your beauty.

You possessed me entirely…. But I couldn’t marry you. Our natures

were too different. We would have driven each other mad. I should

have told you this, or written it, plainly, but I couldn’t bring myself

to write the words that would hurt you. I hoped you would just forget

me when I went away…. But we were happy while it lasted, weren’t we?

I was in Paradise. If you send me to my death you will forget your

anger against me, you will only remember the times that we were happy.

How will you feel then? Is it worth it, Julia? I cannot believe that

anybody so beautiful can have a bad heart…. Do you remember…” He

took a step closer to her, and murmured something none of us could

hear. “After that,” he asked gravely, “after that, can you bring

yourself to swear my life away?”



She strained her face away from him. “I’m sorry,” she said in an

unnatural, twanging voice, “but the truth is the truth! I have nothing

to change in what I said.”



Henry Varick slowly raised his shoulders, and spread out his palms;

then his whole body sagged. “Well, that’s that,” he said in a flat

voice. “I’m done for, I guess.” A painful recklessness appeared on

his face. “Come on, Inspector!” he cried out. “Come on, old cock,

let’s go! I don’t know where I’m going, but I’m on my way!” He

stopped short, and an awful goneness sounded in his voice. “Oh God! I

wish it was to the death chamber that you were taking me! That is over

in a minute, but the weeks before that…!”



The Inspector seemed disposed to linger, to talk things over with Mme.

Storey, and the young man cried out sharply: “Come on! Come on! I

can’t stand any more of this!”



At a glance from my mistress the Inspector bestirred himself. As the

two men reached the door, the girl shrieked. The sound seemed to be

torn from her breast. “Stop! Stop! I cannot bear it! I lied!”



The two men turned back. When the girl’s unnatural self-control broke,

everything went. Her convulsed face seemed scarcely human. It was

dreadful to see so complete an abasement.



“I lied!” she moaned. “I lied from beginning to end. He didn’t do it!

It was I who poisoned Commodore Varick. Oh, what a wretch I am!” She

struck her head with her clenched hands.



Henry Varick stared at her like one transfixed with horror. “You

killed my father!” he murmured from time to time: “You killed my

father!”



I was dazed with the suddenness of it. My mistress motioned to me, and

I automatically drew a sheet of paper towards me, and with trembling

hands started to take down what the girl said, scarce knowing what I

wrote.



Her body swayed forward and back. The words came gabbling from her

lips, as if some terror urged her to get it all out before she could

think. “I will tell all! It has been in my mind for a long time. But

it was Henry that I meant to kill. Because he was false to me. First

with that foreign woman, and afterwards with the contemptible Gilsey

girl. It was the poisons that put it into my head. Always they were

in the next room, tempting, tempting me. I found a key that would open

the door, and I could go into Henry’s study at any time without anybody

knowing. He was never there. There was a book in there, too, that

described all the different poisons and how they acted….



“I collected old keys. I bought them in junk-shops and other places,

many, many keys, until I had got one that would open the curio cabinet,

and a little one that opened the box of drugs. I took out the bottle

of aconite, and locked all up again, and threw away the keys. Then I

bided my time, and studied how to give Henry the poison. But I could

think of no way. I never saw him any more. I wrote asking him to come

to see me, but he paid no attention to the letter….”



“She did … she did!” murmured Henry, like one in a trance.



“Then I heard Henry tell his father that he was married to that

white-faced blonde, and I went mad … mad! I changed my plan. I

couldn’t get at Henry, but I had plenty of opportunities with his

father. I wanted to strike at them, I didn’t care which one. I made

up my mind to wait until the Commodore had changed his will, and then

kill him. That was to be my revenge. I didn’t think until later of

putting it off on Henry. That made it sweeter!



“I knew the Commodore took a capsule after every meal. There was a

white powder in it that looked just the same as the aconite. I got

some empty capsules and filled them with the aconite. There was only

enough to fill three. When Henry and the girl were with the Commodore

in his study, I sneaked around outside, through the foyer of the suite

and into the bathroom. I took the capsules out of the box, put the

poisoned ones in, and went back to my room. I watched and listened. I

saw Henry and the girl go. The Commodore was half-reconciled to them,

and it made me smile to think how I was going to dish them all!



“When the Commodore left his study, I followed and listened at the

crack of the door. I heard him go into the bathroom and come out

again. Then I knew the thing was done. I knew that I would have just

as much time as it would take for the capsule to melt in his stomach.

Plenty of time to get away. He returned to his study, but he never saw

me. I was back in the office then. I went around through the foyer

into the bathroom. There were only two capsules in the box, so I knew

there had been no slip-up. I replaced them with two of the harmless

capsules, and went downstairs.”



So much for the facts of her story. I shall not speak of the

unfortunate girl’s ravings. It is too painful. Too great an effort of

self-control is followed by the collapse of all resistance. It left

her exhausted and shaking, finally apathetic. Detective Manby was

called in, and she was handed over to his care. Unable to speak above

a whisper then, she begged for permission to rest for ten minutes in

the office. This was granted.



The other four of us were left looking at each other, scarcely able to

comprehend what had happened. I for one was conscious of an immense

weariness. I felt as if I should drop in my tracks. But it was a

delicious kind of weariness, the feeling that comes after a shattering

storm, when you find quiet in your ears once more. Blessed, blessed

quiet and peace. At first you can hardly believe it. But I looked at

Henry Varick, and there he was, safe, and my heart was content.



He, I think, was the first to speak. “And are you through with me,

now?” he asked wonderingly. “Am I free?”



“Free as air,” said Mme. Storey, laying a hand on his shoulder. “Go to

your wife and tell her. And to your mother. You appear to have lost

your fortune, but you have them!”



Gladness shone out in his face like the sun breaking through. He had

already forgotten the poor, hysterical wretch in the next room. Well,

such is youth! “What do I care for the money!” he cried. “If I am

free.” He ran out of the room.



“Well, I expect your mother won’t let you starve,” remarked Mme. Storey

dryly. “And wills have been broken before this!”



“And so you were right after all!” said Inspector Rumsey generously.



“As it happens,” said my mistress, smiling. “But I was not nearly so

sure as I made out to be.”



Our excitements were not yet over, for presently Detective Manby burst

into the room with a dismayed face. “She has given me the slip!” he

cried.



To make a long story short, at a moment when Manby was not looking

directly at her, the prisoner had slipped from the office into Henry’s

study adjoining. Manby was not even aware that she had unlocked the

door. She slammed it in his face, and got out into the main hall. By

the time Manby got through the two doors, she was nowhere to be seen.

None of the servants had seen her. To us, of course, it was apparent

that she had gone down the enclosed stair, of which Manby knew nothing,

and out through the secret passage. The Inspector was in a rage, but

Mme. Storey took it with more than usual calmness.



“It is all for the best,” she said enigmatically.



“For the best!” he exclaimed indignantly.



“I take it she has gone home,” said my mistress, gravely. “But

wherever she has gone she will soon be found, my friend. The resolve

to kill herself was in her eye.”



“Justice will be defeated!” cried the Inspector.



“Man’s justice,” murmured Mme. Storey with an imperceptible shrug.



“We must follow her!” cried the Inspector.



“No! Let us not be seen there,” said my mistress, laying a hand on his

arm. “Send Manby.”



And so it was done.



In my notebook I find the following clipping:



“At 11.15 yesterday morning the body of Miss Julia Priestley, 26, was

found dead at No. –- Lexington Avenue, with a bullet through the

heart. A new .38 automatic was clutched in her hand, and her clothing

revealed powder burns. From the position of the body it was apparent

that she had stood in front of a mirror to aim the gun. She was found

in the bedroom of a small three-room apartment that she occupied alone

at the above address.



“The body was discovered by Detective-Sergeant James Manby. Sergeant

Manby had been sent to Miss Priestley’s apartment as the result of a

mysterious message received by Inspector Rumsey at headquarters a few

minutes earlier. Inspector Rumsey was advised by a woman’s voice over

the telephone, that he had better send a detective to the address

given. When he asked for particulars, his informant hung up. It is

supposed that this was Miss Priestley herself. When Sergeant Manby

reached the apartment, he found the door open as if for his

convenience. The woman’s body was still warm.



“For the past year Miss Priestley was employed by the late Commodore

Varick as an amanuensis in the preparation of a book that he was

writing. It is supposed that the death of her employer, which came

with such shocking suddenness on Tuesday evening, and the consequent

loss of her employment, temporarily deranged the young woman’s mind.

Her nearest relative is a brother living in Cleveland, Ohio, who is on

his way to New York to take charge of the body.”



And that is all that ever got into the papers.





THE END


[End of The Almost Perfect Murder by Hulbert Footner]





